CODE OF CONDUCT
adesso Group
Version: 2.3
Datum: 15.05.2024
TABLE OF CONTENTS
FOREWORD .......................................................................................................... 11
1. PRINCIPLES ...................................................................................................... 12
2. COLLABORATION ............................................................................................ 12
3. INTEGRITY ........................................................................................................ 14
4. COMPLIANCE ................................................................................................... 15
5. PROTECTIONS ................................................................................................. 16
6. FINAL PROVISIONS .......................................................................................... 17
ANNEX A ............................................................................................................... 17
Code of Conduct
10 | 18FOREWORD
Dear Employees and Friends of the Company,
Our claim ‘business. people. technology.’ expresses our aspiration to shape our busi-
ness in a sustainable way with our customers, partners, suppliers, and of course, all
of our colleagues. This commitment extends beyond observing laws to upholding so-
cial norms and values in the fields of business, the environment and social affairs. As
an IT service provider, our customers also expect us to be particularly careful in deal-
ing with data protection, information security and intellectual property.
This document summarises our corporate principles and our values. All of the other
guidelines in the adesso Group are aligned with this Code of Conduct.
If you have questions, or would like to give us feedback or suggestions on any of
these topics, you can contact us via csr@adesso.de.
The Executive Board
Benedikt Bonnmann Kristina Gerwert Mark Lohweber Andreas Prenneis Jörg Schroeder
Code of Conduct
11 | 181. PRINCIPLES
(1) Our corporate principles, that is, our Code of Conduct, apply to all national and
international companies within the adesso Group. They comprise the binding
framework for all of our professional activities and business relationships and
provide the foundation for reliable and respectful cooperation. These princi-
ples also apply to relations with external stakeholders. Furthermore, in our
selection of and cooperation with partners and suppliers, we also expect them
to respect the principles described here.
(2) We place great importance to a distinctive welcoming culture, responsible cor-
porate governance and place high demands on transparency, control and
business ethics. The focus is on the will to win and expand customers to-
gether. This fundamentally strengthens the confidence of our shareholders in
our company and in the capital market.
2. COLLABORATION
(1) We adhere to internationally recognised human rights as well as labour and
social standards, act in accordance with the principles of the UN Global Com-
pact and reject inhumane practices such as forced labour or child labour as a
matter of course. We do not cooperate with companies that apply or permit
such practices.
(2) We respect our employees and their rights first and foremost. Common values
for cooperation and leadership, which extend beyond the relevant legal regu-
lations, form the foundation of our corporate culture.
(3) We consider the diversity of our employees to be an opportunity. It goes with-
out saying that we respect equal opportunities and do not tolerate any form of
discrimination, bullying or harassment. It is not permitted to disadvantage, fa-
vor or exclude employees on the basis of ethnic origin, gender, religion or ide-
ology, disability, age or sexual identity during recruitment, hiring, training, pro-
motion or throughout the entire employment relationship. Diversity, equality
and inclusion are central to our HR strategy and aim to ensure a culture of
belonging with open and respectful interaction for all employees.
(4) All contracts for the hiring of new employees comply with applicable laws and
regulations and are reviewed under the dual control principle. We do not
Code of Conduct
12 | 18mislead or deceive potential employees about the nature of the work. We do
not charge them recruitment fees or collect identification documents.
(5) Our employees may terminate their employment in accordance with local and
national laws or regulations without incurring illegal penalties.
(6) We do not use private or public security personnel to protect the company.
Their deployment must not violate applicable human rights, civil liberties or
labour laws.
(7) As collectively agreed, wages are not common in the IT industry, which means
that no company in the adesso Group is bound by collective bargaining agree-
ments, remuneration is based on standard market salaries. We ensure that
women and men are paid in accordance with the same regulations, and we
act on the basis of the applicable labour laws, taking into account the German
Federal Transparency in Wage Structures Act.
(8) In addition to a fixed salary component, we also offer our employees attractive
monetary incentives, such as variable salary components at the operational
level. The remuneration model is geared to modern requirements for flexible,
easily understand-able and comparable remuneration, as well as to the life
and work situation of employees.
(9) We comply with the right to freedom of assembly, association and collective
bargaining as well as with relevant regulations to ensure fair working condi-
tions. We firmly support the freedom to choose one’s profession as well as the
right to rest and leisure, and regular paid holidays. At a minimum, we comply
with the applicable national regulations on working hours and holidays.
(10) Commitment, trust, esteem and respect are the central elements of our inter-
action with each other. We shape this, among other things, through construc-
tive and honest feedback, which is seen as an opportunity to learn. We are
open to constructive ideas from our employees, regardless of hierarchy.
(11) It is important to us that managers exemplify our values and represent all of
our corporate decisions. They know how much time they have to devote to
their management tasks and make well-founded and transparent decisions
together with the respective employee. They treat their energy and that of their
employees with care and pay attention to their health and ensure a proper
work-life balance. They offer constructive, specific and appropriate praise, and
ensure that successes are recognised and celebrated.
(12) We support the reconciliation of family and career and a good work-life bal-
ance through numerous initiatives. These include:
 Individual part-time models
Code of Conduct
13 | 18 A flexible division of working hours outside of core working hours
 Assignment to customers close to the employee’s home
 Special leave for weddings, births, relocation, etc.
 Childcare during holidays
 Location-based customary leave
 Granting of individual leaves
3. INTEGRITY
(1) We do not tolerate any form of corruption, extortion, embezzlement, bribery,
venality or any other unlawful granting of advantage.
(2) Cooperation with customers, partners and suppliers shall also be respectful
and appreciative. In our business relations, we observe commercial principles
and draft contracts only on the basis of objective criteria (such as quality, price
and reliability) and without consideration of personal interests.
(3) We are committed to the principles of the market economy and fair competi-
tion. The making of any market-relevant agreements with the competition is
prohibited and the recognition of the applicable antitrust law is assumed.
(4) Our employees shall only accept or issue business invitations if they are rea-
son-able, do not receive any improper consideration or other preferential treat-
ment, and do not violate any applicable law. This also applies to the ac-
ceptance or granting of gifts and other benefits or advantages.
(5) All employees shall observe the statutory insider regulations.
(6) Situations that could cause personal conflicts of interest must be avoided. If a
conflict of interest already exists or currently arises, it must be reported imme-
diately to the superior.
(7) We respect and protect third-party and our own intellectual property. We pro-
hibit the use of plagiarism.
(8) Donations and sponsorships are transparent, documented and reviewed or
ap-proved by the Executive Board or management. Invoices are checked and
approved according to the principle of second sign-off and a two-stage pay-
ment approval process. Companies deliberately keep their cash-in-hand to a
minimum.
Code of Conduct
14 | 18(9) The documentation of business records complies with applicable law and gen-
erally accepted accounting principles. This includes, but is not limited to, fi-
nancial accounts, quality reports, time records, expense reports and submis-
sions to clients or regulators, as appropriate.
(10) We are strongly committed to complying with all laws relating to the preven-
tion, detection and reporting of money laundering activities and conduct our
business only with customers, partners and suppliers who conduct legitimate
business and use legitimate financial resources.
(11) The return of parts of a contractual payment to partners and their employees
in the form of kickbacks or hidden commissions is not permitted. This does not
apply to contractually agreed commissions and discounts.
(12) We respect international economic and trade sanctions regulations, embar-
goes against certain countries, companies or persons and observe bans on
exports and imports.
(13) We have no vested interest in exerting political influence on parties or govern-
ment authorities. For this reason, we do not make any direct or indirect mon-
etary or material contributions to political parties or other political organisa-
tions.
(14) We reject all forms of unlawful eviction and expropriation for the purpose of
acquisition, development or other use of land, forests and waters.
4. COMPLIANCE
(1) We have introduced an integrated management system with the aim of com-
plying with all national and international laws, regulations and requirements as
well as creating internal, generally applicable standards.
(2) The goal of all our actions is to successfully complete projects for the benefit
of our customers. To this end, we have certified our quality management sys-
tem in accordance with the international ISO 9001 standard.
(3) We always seek and develop innovations, not only in relation to our individual
customer environment, but also through the continuous and systematic eval-
uation of our project results. On the basis of these findings, we regularly review
our own procedures and improve them if necessary. Our aim is to optimise
customer benefits and our own business results, to open up new business
areas and thus to maintain our consistent growth.
Code of Conduct
15 | 18(4) The goal of all our actions is to reduce our environmental impact. To this end,
we have certified an environmental management system in accordance with
the international standard ISO 14001. In every situation, our employees deter-
mine and consider the effects of their actions on their environment and actively
search for sustainable solutions in terms of economy and ecology.
(5) We take our responsibility for the health and safety of our employees seriously.
In order to promote the health of our employees and to fulfill our legal obliga-
tions, we operate an health and safety management system. This deals with
occupational health and safety, health promotion and integration manage-
ment.
(6) Data protection and information security represent a quality feature that
strengthens the trust of business partners, employees and the public in our
company and our name.
(7) The protection of personal rights (the right to informational self-determination)
of our employees and business partners must always be guaranteed. It should
be noted that personal data is almost always data with high business rele-
vance. The realisation and maintenance of an adequate level of data protec-
tion and information security in all business processes is therefore our utmost
goal.
(8) We take appropriate technical, organisational and infrastructural measures to
ensure that access to sensitive systems, security zones and critical infrastruc-
ture facilities, as well as access to critical information and applications, is only
possible for authorised employees. We regularly confirm the adequacy of
these measures by certifying our information security management system in
accordance with ISO 27001.
(9) Each employee is responsible for the security of his or her own information
and data and for their processing as information owners.
5. PROTECTIONS
(1) We encourage employees (or business partners or third parties) to report any
violations of this Code of Conduct via adesso's existing whistleblower system.
Among other things, information on human rights and/or environmental risks
as well as possible violations of human rights or environmental obligations can
also be provided.
(2) In the event of violations of the principles of the " Collaboration" chapter, there
are the following points of contact for those affected:
Code of Conduct
16 | 18 the direct manager and other persons with management and support
functions
 the responsible personnel officer
 the Equal Opportunities Officer
 the persons of trust of the European employee representatives
(3) All contact persons are obliged to maintain confidentiality. In any case, it is
ensured that the person seeking advice or making a complaint does not suffer
any personal or professional disadvantages. In principle, the wishes of the
person concerned will be taken into account in an appropriate manner when
planning the next steps. If business partners/third parties, supervisors, col-
leagues or other members of the company prompt, threaten or compel an em-
ployee to support a violation of the applicable law or the provisions of these
Codes, the employee must refuse the re-quest. We protect all employees from
adverse treatment or retaliation in the event of compliant conduct (e.g., denial
of such requests); or when such incidents are reported in good faith.
6. FINAL PROVISIONS
(1) Violations of adesso's corporate principles may - depending on the severity of
the violation - result in disciplinary and / or labour law measures.
(2) Failure to comply with the principles of the "Integrity" chapter will result in im-
mediate dismissal and reporting to the criminal prosecution authorities.
ANNEX A
Examples of conflicts of interest:
(1) An employee reports to a superior who is a relative or close friend and has
control over his tasks, salary and professional development.
(2) An employee is a key account manager at adesso responsible for a company
where a relative or close friend works in the crucial position.
(3) A developer works part-time in the evening for a company that produces soft-
ware that competes with a software product from adesso.
Code of Conduct
17 | 18(4) A buyer accepts trips and gifts from a vendor and then selects the vendor's
products for purchase by adesso.
Code of Conduct
18 | 18