AdobeCode of Business Conduct
Adobe Code of Business Conduct
Doing business with integrity worldwide
Integrity has always been at the heart of Adobe’s culture. While our business has transformed
dramatically over the decades, our commitment to operating with the highest ethical standards have
remained constant.
Adobe’s Code of Business Conduct outlines the principles that guide our interactions with
employees, customers, partners, stockholders, and communities. We hold ourselves to these
principles in everything we do. We strive to communicate openly and honestly, to act fairly and
responsibly, and to foster a vibrant, safe, and diverse work environment.
In simple terms, our Code reflects our promise always to do the right thing. It is a key reason we
are among the world’s most admired companies, and it is vital to our ongoing success.
Shantanu Narayen
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
April 2023 | 1 of 13AdobeCode of Business Conduct
Table of Contents
1. Overview
2. Our Company Values
How to Report Suspected Violations
No Retaliation
Cooperating with Investigations
3. Our Workplace
Protecting Against Discrimination and Harassment
Maintaining a Safe and Healthy Workplace
Ensuring Proper Use of Adobe’s Assets
Safeguarding Confidential Information
4. Our Individual Conduct
Avoiding Conflicts of Interest
Insider Trading
Social Media and Public Speaking
5. Our Business Relationships
Fair Dealing
Open and Fair Competition
Data Protection and Privacy
Working with Government Customers
Maintaining Accurate Books and Records
Document Retention
Financial Reporting
6. Our Community
Global Trade Regulations
Anti-Corruption Compliance
Charitable Donations
Public Policy Engagement and Political Contributions
AI Ethics
Sustainability
7. Compliance with the Law
8. Violations
9. Waivers
10. Responsibility and Related Documents
April 2023 | 2 of 13AdobeCode of Business Conduct
1. Overview
This Code establishes the principles of business conduct that Adobe considers fundamental in our operations
worldwide.
This Code applies to all Adobe personnel, including any regular employee, Adobe-paid temporary employee,
contingent worker (which includes agency temporary employees, independent contractors, and vendor
employees), and intern of an Adobe group company.
You are expected to comply with this Code any time you perform work for Adobe, represent the company, or
participate in company-sponsored events, whether you are on or off Adobe’s premises.
This Code does not list every legal or ethical issue that you may face during business; rather, it is meant to
guide your actions and be applied using your common sense and good judgment. If you face a situation that
is not co vered by this Code, ask yourself these questions to guide your actions:
• Is it legal according to the spirit, as well as the letter, of any law that may apply?
• Is it ethical and consistent with the principles set forth in this Code and other Adobe policies?
• Would you want your actions reported publicly?
• What would your family, friends, manager, and co-workers think of your actions?
• Could there be any direct or indirect negative consequences for Adobe?
2. Our Company Values
Acting with integrity is a fundamental part of Adobe’s culture and how we do business. Our commitment to
being fair and honest is how we maintain trust and credibility with our employees, customers, business
partners, stockholders, and communities where we operate.
At Adobe, we embrace these company values:
Creativity is in our DNA. We constantly look around the corner to see what is possible. But we don't wait for
the future, we create it.
We are builders, makers, and inventors, driven by a deep empathy for our customers and users.
We are open-minded and celebrate new ideas. We have the courage to disrupt the market and ourselves
through bold bets and ideas we turn into reality.
We think and operate like owners. We take initiative, have a bias toward action, and assume ownership for
end results, not just our part.
We are reliable and have clear points of view. We're decisive and learn from our mistakes.
We aim high and we play to win. We relentlessly focus on execution, celebrate excellence and are
intellectually honest about where we must do better.
We deliver both speed and quality by doing fewer things better. Our success is measured by the success of
our customers and users.
April 2023 | 3 of 13AdobeCode of Business Conduct
The ability to be yourself is core to who we are. We embrace and respect diversity.
We support and challenge each other by being honest and direct. We always act with sincerity, integrity and
the highest of ethics.
We do this for our employees, partners, customers, and communities.
How to Report Suspected Violations
BUSINESS ETHICS
HOTLINE As part of adhering to the principles outlined in this Code, you are required to promptly report any
1-800-300-1026 circumstances you become aware of that may be inconsistent with or in violation of this Code. No retaliation
will be taken against you for reporting a suspected violation that you honestly, reasonably believe to be true.
• Call
Your communication will be handled impartially, diligently and with discretion and kept in confidence to the
within the U.S. and
Canada extent appropriate and permitted by law and Adobe policies.
You will have the option There are several ways that you can report a suspected violation of this Code or any other Adobe policies. You
to remain anonymous to
may:
the extent permitted by
applicable law.
• Discuss with your manager.
All reports will be kept in
confidence to the extent • Speak with an Adobe Legal representative or a member of Adobe’s Employee Resources Center
appropriate and (ERC”) by submitting a case via the Support Center.
permitted by law and • Contact the Compliance Office at Integrity@adobe.com.
Adobe policies.
• Submit a report on the Adobe Business Ethics Hotline via the online web portal or a local telephone
number at https://www.adobe.com/about-adobe/integrity.html. You will have the option to
remain anonymous (to the extent permitted by applicable law), and all reports will be handled
sensitively and in accordance with Adobe policies and applicable law.
• For more information and hotline instructions, visit the Integrity pageon Inside Adobe. You may
ask at any time to submit your report in a face-to-face meeting (so long as local safety measures
permit such meetings).
You should always seek to report to someone who you believe is neutral and not directly involved in the
conduct you are concerned about. Your prompt disclosure to the appropriate parties is important. It enables
Adobe to handle the matter in the best way possible and provide a thorough and timely resolution. If you
believe Adobe has not taken appropriate action in response to your reported concerns, you should report this
to the Adobe Compliance Office. Additionally, people managers must immediately report any potential
violations they witness or become aware of, and any complaints they receive about such conduct.
Reports of suspected violations must always be made based on an honest, good-faith belief. Employees who
become aware of a suspected violation should not attempt to investigate it or take action on their own.
Reporting through internal channels before reporting through external channels is encouraged, but nothing
in this policy prevents you from reporting possible violations of applicable law or regulation to a governmental
agency or entity, which may be protected under the whistleblower provisions of applicable law or regulation.
You do not need the prior authorization of Adobe to make any such reports or disclosures and you are not
requi red tNoo n oRtiefyt aAldioabtei othna t you have made such reports or disclosures.
RELATED RESOURCE
Adobe will not retaliate against you for raising any concerns or potential violations of Adobe policies, including
this Code, that you honestly and reasonably believe to be true, or where you otherwise provide truthful
Non-Retaliation Policy information to assist in an investigation of such issues. Retaliation is prohibited by our company policies, and
anyone who retaliates may be subject to civil, criminal, and administrative penalties, as well as disciplinary
actio n incCluodoinpge terramtiinnagti owni otfh e mInpvloeysmtiegnat otiro anffisli ation with Adobe.
Adobe takes seriously any concerns and allegations of misconduct. Adobe will promptly investigate any
reported violations or potential violations of its policies and take corrective action as needed.
Your full cooperation in any Adobe investigation is expected and will enable us to properly investigate these
matters. This includes making yourself available to talk to an investigator, responding to Adobe’s questions
with candor, and providing complete and accurate information to Adobe. You must never alter or destroy
records in response to any actual or anticipated investigation, litigation, or audit.
April 2023 | 4 of 13AdobeCode of Business Conduct
Adobe will keep its discussions and actions confidential to the extent appropriate and permitted by law and
Adobe policies. However, over the course of an investigation, Adobe may find it necessary to share information
with others inside and outside of Adobe on a “need to know” basis.
If you have questions about whether the issue you have raised is being appropriately addressed, you are
always invited to contact the Adobe Compliance Office. You can be assured that Adobe will not retaliate
against you for reporting an honest, reasonable concern or for participating in an Adobe investigation.
3. Our Workplace
Adobe achieves success by embracing a broad diversity of ideas, perspectives, and backgrounds. We believe
that a diverse workforce is a strong workforce. To this end, we follow principles of equal employment
opportunity and we are committed to providing a safe, creative and productive work environment for all
perso nnePl. rotecting Against Discrimination and Harassment
RELATED RESOURCES
We believe that everyone has the right to be treated with dignity and fairness. We do not tolerate unlawful
Global Harassment &
discrimination or harassment against anyone based on race, ethnicity, color, religion, gender, gender identity
Discrimination Policy
or expression, marital status, age, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, national origin, citizenship, or
Equal Employment other classification protected by applicable law.
Opportunity Policy*
We protect our personnel from harassment and any other conduct that may foster an offensive or hostile work
Reasonable
Accommodation Policy* environment. This includes unwelcome or unsolicited sexual advances, threats of physical harm or violent
behavior, and use of discriminatory slurs or inappropriate remarks or jokes. This protection applies whether
* For U.S. and Canada.
Check Inside Adobe for the conduct occurs on Adobe’s premises, at off-site business meetings, or through email, voicemail, text, direct
other country specific message, apps or other types of communication.
policies or contact the
Employee Resource We will promptly investigate any reports of harassment, discrimination, or workplace violence and take
Center by submitting a corre ctiveM aactiinont aasin nienedge ad. S afe and Healthy Workplace
case via the Support
Center.
The safety and security of all employees, contingent workers and visitors is of paramount importance to
Adobe. Current laws, legislation, and regulations (collectively "Safety Regulations") require employers, their
representative management, and employees to consider safety and security a joint responsibility. All levels of
the Adobe organization will cooperate to ensure that safety and security is integral to how we work at Adobe.
Adobe will maintain statements of policy regarding health, safety, security and welfare at work and effectively
enforce those policies.
Adobe does not permit anyone to be under the influence of illegal drugs or intoxicants, including the
RELATED RESOURCES
inappropriate use of lawful medications, or the use of recreational drugs when conducting Adobe business,
representing the company, or attending company-sponsored events.
Drug-Free Workplace
While some drugs are legal for recreational or other consumption in specific locations and circumstances,
Policy
Adobe does not allow their use in any form in the workplace, during work events, or in any manner where
Facilities Usage Policy they will affect your work performance. When representing Adobe, alcohol should only be consumed as part
Safety Policy Statement of company-sponsored events and should never be consumed to excess.
Global Health & Safety Adobe strives to be a tobacco-free workplace. We do not allow anyone to use tobacco products that emit
Plan smoke or vapor on Adobe’s premises, either indoors or outdoors.
Tobacco-Free Workplace
Policy Adobe does not tolerate violent behavior, threats of violence, or acts of aggression. We do not allow anyone
to sell or possess dangerous weapons, real or replicas, on Adobe’s premises or when conducting Adobe
COVID-19 Safety Playbook
business, representing the company, or attending company-sponsored events. Firearms are prohibited, except
Violence Prevention in limited circumstances where Adobe is required by law to allow the possession of firearms and provided
Policy such firearms are handled according to all applicable legal requirements and Adobe policies.
April 2023 | 5 of 13AdobeCode of Business Conduct
Ensuring Proper Use of Adobe’s Assets
RELATED RESOURCES
We expect all personnel to protect Adobe’s assets and use company resources only to
perform legitimate business functions (and for reasonable personal purposes, as
Business Travel & allowed by Adobe’s policies). This means you may not use Adobe’s assets for any
Expense
function that you are not authorized to perform, for any illegal purpose, or for any matter
Reimbursement Policy
that violates the letter or spirit of this Code or other Adobe policies.
Electronic
Communications Policy You are responsible for any Adobe assets that are under your control. It is important
that you avoid any unauthorized use, alteration, destruction, disclosure, distribution,
Software Management
Standard theft, waste, or other carelessness when handling Adobe’s assets. The improper use of
Adobe’s assets may expose both you and Adobe to legal liability and damaged
reputation, and result in disciplinary action, including termination of your employment
or affiliation with Adobe.
Adobe’s assets include tangible assets (such as office equipment) and intangible assets (such as software
pCroomgrpaamnsy; Fpuatnednst:s, trademarks, and copyrights; and proprietary and confidential information).
If you are authorized to use Adobe funds, you are expected to spend wisely and follow all
applicable procedures. You should avoid waste and verify that Adobe gets proper value for any services or
products that you purchase. For example, if you have a company credit card for business travel and expenses,
you may only use it for the types of expenses permitted by Adobe policies and you are responsible for
sEulebcmtritotninigc pErqoupieprm doecnutm: entation for reimbursement.
Adobe provides electronic equipment and network access, such as computers,
telephones, and e-mail and voicemail services, to enable our workforce to be productive and efficient in their
jobs. Any information pertaining to Adobe stored on personally-owned equipment, and any information
stored on Adobe-supplied equipment or any third-party account created using an Adobe email address (for
example, an address ending with “@adobe.com”), may be monitored, accessed, or reclaimed by Adobe as
necessary to meet business or legal requirements, as permitted by law and in accordance with our Electronic
CCoompymriugnhicteadti oMnas tPeorliiacly: and Employee Privacy Policy.
You are responsible for confirming that Adobe has the appropriate rights before you
use, make copies of, transfer (externally or internally), or resell any copyrighted materials. Third-party
software is an example of copyrighted material. You must ensure that any third-party software you use is
properly licensed and only used in accordance with the licensing agreement and relevant Adobe policies.
Copyrighted materials also include software, manuals, articles, books, and databases. Please contact the Adobe
Legal depSaratfmeegnut aforrd minorge Cguoidnafnidcee wnittiha rle Isnpefcotr tmo caotpiyoring h ted material.
You must protect all confidential information concerning Adobe, as well as any confidential information
entrusted to Adobe by third parties. You also must never inappropriately disclose another party’s confidential
iAndfoorbmea’st ioCno ntofi Addeonbtiea. l Information
: You should never disclose confidential information unless you are
authorized by Adobe or providing information to governmental authorities in accordance with law. Your duty
to safeguard confidential information also applies to communications with your family members and friends
and continues even after your employment relationship with Adobe ends.
Adobe’s confidential information includes all non-public information that might be useful to competitors or
otherw ise harmful to Adobe if disclosed, such as:
• trade secrets
• software programs, including source and object code
• designs, inventions, ideas, know-how, processes, and techniques
• information about new products, marketing plans, product roadmaps, and product release dates
• research and development efforts
• business trends and projections
• information about existing or potential contracts, orders, and transactions
• information about existing or potential employees, business partners, suppliers, and customers
(including personal information)
• information about Adobe’s current and targeted financial performance (except what has been
publicly disclosed)
• information relating to potential acquisitions by or of Adobe
• investments and divestitures
• any other sensitive information.
April 2023 | 6 of 13AdobeCode of Business Conduct
If you have a legitimate business need to disclose confidential information, you should first get approval from
your manager and ensure that appropriate non-disclosure provisions are including in a contract or separate
non-disclosure agreement (NDA) signed by the party receiving the information. Do not disclose any more
cAonnoftidheenrt Piaal rintyfo’sr mCoantifoind ethnatina ils I nnefocersmsaartyio fno:r your business purpose.
Similarly, you must never disclose another party’s confidential
information to Adobe unless you are authorized by that party to provide that information. This includes
confidential information you may have received while employed by a prior employer; your obligations to
continue to protect such information likely continue after your employment terminated.
Any questions about whether something is considered confidential information should be directed to Adobe’s
Compliance Office at Integrity@adobe.com.
4. Our Individual Conduct
We a re eaAchv roeisdpionngsi bCleo fnofrl aiccttisn go ifn Iannt eetrheicsatl w ay and complying with applicable laws.
Adobe takes an active role in managing conflicts of interest, as described in the Conflicts of Interest Master
Policy. A conflict of interest can arise from any personal activities or relationships that influence, or appear to
influence, your ability to act in the best interests of Adobe.
You are encouraged to be transparent so that potential conflicts can be identified early and appropriate
precautions can be taken to protect both you and Adobe. If you have a circumstance that potentially conflicts
with Adobe’s interests, you must disclose it to the Adobe Compliance Office and follow any controls deemed
necessary for Adobe to ensure that individuals who make decisions or are otherwise involved can exercise
independent business judgment in Adobe's best interest. Any activity that competes with Adobe or opposes
Adobe’s interests will not be permitted.
THhaev ifnolgl oawni nogu stcseindaer ipoos sairteio anm, osnugc hth oasse stehravt ignivge ornis ea t ob pooatredn, tifaolr c oannfyli cetsn otift iyn t(efroers-tp: rofit or non-profit),
especially if that entity has a current or potential business relationship or competitive relationship
with Adobe.
You may be required to follow specific controls to ensure that you do not participate in or have
influence over any business relationship between the entity and Adobe. You may not serve in any position for
an entity that competes or is likely to compete with Adobe and you must receive prior approvals to serve on
aPneyr ffoorrm-pirnogfi to buotsairdde. work, whether paid or unpaid, that is related to Adobe’s business or the work you
perform for Adobe.
Outside work may include consulting, speaking engagements, authoring publications,
and developing software or apps for non-personal use. Outside work will only be permitted if it is limited in
scope, does not interfere with your work at Adobe, and does not use Adobe’s resources. Performing work for
aHno Alddionbge a c Soimgnpieftiictaonr ti sI nnvoet satlmloewnetd i nun adne er natniyty c tirhcautm custrarnecnetsl.y conducts or seeks to conduct business with
Adobe.
A Significant Investment is any beneficial ownership or financial interest that could influence, or
reasonably appear to influence, your judgment or ability to act on behalf of Adobe, as defined in the Conflict
of Interest Master Policy. In general, Significant Investments will only be permitted if you do not have
responsibility for any business relationship between the entity and Adobe. You may not own, either directly
or indirectly, a Significant Investment in any entity that competes or is likely to compete with Adobe (with the
eCxocnedputicotnin ogf oAwdnoibneg sbtoucskin iens psu bwliicthly rtrealdaetedd c opmaprtaineise,s )s.u c h as a family member, person sharing your
household, or anyone else with whom you have a significant personal relationship.
You are responsible
for avoiding situations where your personal relationships may create the appearance of a conflict of interest.
For example, you may be required to follow specific controls to avoid participating in or having influence over
any business relationship between your related party (or their employer) and Adobe. Similarly, significant
personal relationships others within Adobe, particularly when within a reporting structure, may create a
potential conflict or the appearance of a conflict and need to be disclosed for evaluation and appropriate
Gmiavninagge omre nret.c e iving gifts or hospitality from any outside entity that conducts business or seeks to
conduct business with Adobe.
Adobe recognizes that business gifts and hospitality can establish goodwill,
but they can also create conflicts of interest, violate procurement laws, or constitute illegal bribery if they are
excessive, frequent, or appear to be used for improper influence. Gifts and hospitality may only be exchanged
in accordance with Adobe policies (see Business Gifts and Hospitality Policy) and the policies of the outside
entity. Special rules apply to government employees and to third parties participating in or potentially
participating in U.S. Federal government contracts with Adobe such as prime contractors, resellers, and
April 2023 | 7 of 13AdobeCode of Business Conduct
distributors. See the Government Gifts & Hospitality Matrix for further guidance as well as the U.S. Public
STeacktoinrg H paenrdsboonoakl. advantage of corporate opportunities that are presented to you or discovered by you
through your position with Adobe or through your use of Adobe property or information.
You may only
pursue such opportunities if you have received authorization from the Adobe Compliance Office, General
Coun sel, oIrn isf iadpperro Tprriaatde,i tnhge A dobe Board of Directors or a committee of the Board.
RELATED RESOURCES
As you perform your job for Adobe, you may possess Insider Information that gives you an unfair advantage
in trading Adobe stocks or the stocks of other publicly-held companies such as Adobe’s existing or potential
Insider Trading Policy customers or business partners.
Trading Window Calendar
“Insider Information” refers to any non-public information that a reasonable investor would consider
important in deciding whether to buy, sell, or hold stock. U.S. law prohibits the purchase or sale of stocks or
derivative securities by any person in possession of Insider Information, and Adobe’s policy prohibits trading
in Adobe options and other derivative securities at any time.
If you trade on the basis of Insider Information, or tip Insider Information to others, you may be personally
liable for civil and criminal fines and face the possibility of a jail sentence. To help protect you from violating
insider trading laws, Adobe has established quarterly trading window procedures that establish when you can
and cannot trade Adobe stock. However, it is ultimately your responsibility to avoid trading any stock on the
basis of Insider Information at any time, regardless of whether the trading window is open.
If you have questions about whether a transaction is legal or may violate insider trading laws, promptly
consult the Stock Trading Compliance Center on Inside Adobe or send your question to Trading@adobe.com.
Social Me dia and Public Speaking
Adobe supports the appropriate use of social media both personally and, if authorized, on behalf of the
company. If you engage in social media, you are expected to always demonstrate good judgment and adhere
to Adobe’s key social principles of being authentic, involved, responsible, and respectful. Remember that you
are responsible for what you say or post online.
All social media and social networking accounts created by Adobe employees that leverage Adobe’s brands or
trademarks, or that are created using an Adobe business email address, are considered the property of Adobe.
You must be authorized by Adobe’s Social Media Center of Excellence before you create or manage these
Adobe-owned properties. Visit the Social Media Resources page on Inside Adobe for guidelines and training
resources.
Whether through social media or other forms of public speaking, you may not represent that you are speaking
on behalf of Adobe unless you are authorized to do so by Adobe Public Relations. At all times, you must protect
against any unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to Adobe, our customers, or any
third parties with whom we do business.
Fair Dealing
5. Our Business Relationships
Ado be adheres to these basic principles of fair business dealing:
• We communicate honestly to our customers, business partners, stockholders, and community
members.
• We do not misuse the intellectual property or confidential information of Adobe or anyone else.
• We respect others and do not take advantage of anyone through manipulation, concealment, abuse
of confidential or privileged information, or misrepresentation of material facts.
• We require all sales and other commercial transactions to be supported with documents that
accurately represent the transaction. We do not omit or misrepresent any material facts in our
records.
• We act with integrity and we comply with all applicable laws and regulations.
• We provide accurate reports and statements to our employees, customers, business partners,
stockholders, and creditors, as well as government agencies and officials.
• We ensure that, when Adobe purchases services or goods, our selection process is fair.
• We guard against conflicts of interest held by anyone responsible for making or influencing
purchasing decisions.
April 2023 | 8 of 13AdobeCode of Business Conduct
Open and Fair Competition
INTERACTIONS
WITH COMPETITORS
Adobe complies with all competition and antitrust laws that protect and support free enterprise. We believe
that open competition leads to a vibrant marketplace where consumers benefit from lower prices, more
choices, and better products and services. Violation of the competition and antitrust laws may expose Adobe
You are expected to
and you personally to criminal and civil penalties. We do not participate in activities that have the effect or
conduct all interactions
with competitors, intent of reducing or destroying competition, such as agreeing with competitors to charge certain prices to
including social activities, customers (price fixing), coordinating with competitors during competitive bidding processes (bid rigging),
as if they were completely
or dividing up markets by region, product, or customer (market allocation).
in the public view.
Remember that your
We compete fairly and on the merits, and we avoid business practices that unfairly exclude or foreclose
interactions may later be
subject to examination competitors from the marketplace. We do not enter into illegal agreements with our competitors, whether
and unfavorable formal or informal, written, or oral. Before we form joint ventures with other third parties, we are cautious to
interpretation. consider whether the joint venture may have unlawful anticompetitive effects.
Althoug h we compete vigorously, we play by the rules:
• We gather competitive intelligence lawfully and without the use of deception.
• We do not seek to acquire, use, or disclose a competitor’s trade secrets or confidential information.
If you receive confidential information about a competitor, even if accidentally or from an unknown
source, or if you become aware or suspect that someone at Adobe has received confidential
information about a competitor, you must immediately contact your manager and either the Adobe
Compliance Office or Adobe Legal department to determine how to proceed.
• We communicate honestly, and we do not make false claims or comparisons about our competitors
or their products or services.
• We conduct all interactions with competitors, including social activities, as if they were completely
in the public view. Remember that your interactions may later be subject to examination and
Duantfaav Porraobtlee icnttieorpnr eatantdio nP. rivacy
RELATED RESOURCES
Adobe is a steward of our employees’, vendors’, customers’, and other individuals’ personal information. We
Personal Information
take our responsibility seriously. We handle personal information in accordance with our internal and
Protection Policy
external privacy policies, and we comply with applicable global data protection laws to protect personal
Adobe Customer Privacy infor matiWon oenrtkruinstge dw toit uhs Gaso pvaertr onf mouer nbut sCinuessst oopmereartiso ns.
Center
Electronic
Communications Policy
Adobe is subject to unique requirements that are considerably stricter when a government entity is our
Employee Privacy Policy
customer or ultimate end customer (such as when Adobe performs as a subcontractor). A violation of these
Information Security requirements can lead to serious financial and reputational harm and result in Adobe being prohibited from
Policies doing business with the government.
If your work involves a government entity, you are responsible for knowing the specific requirements that
apply. Always ask your manager or contact the Adobe Compliance Office if you are unclear about what is
required.
As a supplement to this Code, Adobe maintains a separate U.S. Public Sector Handbook to address specific
requirements that apply when Adobe conducts business with the U.S. public sector. The U.S. public sector
includes all federal, state, and local government entities, as well as any prime contractors for these government
entiti es. Maintaining Accurate Books and Records
KEY RELATED
RESOURCES
Adobe is required by law to keep books and records that accurately reflect the true nature of our operations
Business Travel and and finances. We ensure that all documentation is complete and correct.
Expense Reimbursement
Policy It is a violation of this Code and our company policies to intentionally omit, hide, or disguise the nature of any
Contract Signature Policy transaction or liability in Adobe’s books and records. Falsification of business documents, whether or not it
results in personal or commercial gain, is never permitted and may result in termination of your employment
Side Arrangements Policy
or business relationship with Adobe. Cash or other assets may never be maintained for any purpose in any
unrecorded or “off-the-books” accounts.
Visit the Corporate
Policies page on Inside
You are never permitted to misclassify the account or accounting period of any transaction, or to misrepresent
Adobe for policies in
various areas, including: the nature of a transaction. You must obtain appropriate authorization for all Adobe business transactions
Accounting & Finance and provide all necessary supporting documentation in a thorough and timely manner. All transaction
documents must be properly recorded and reflected in Adobe’s books and records.
Legal & Government
Relations
Purchasing & Receiving
Treasury & Credit
April 2023 | 9 of 13AdobeCode of Business Conduct
Document Retention
KEY RELATED
RESOURCES
Adobe may regularly destroy documents that are not required to be retained. However, if there is an actual
or potential litigation or investigation, Adobe may determine that it is necessary to preserve information
Personal Information
Retention and Deletion regarding the matter, such as emails and other documents that might otherwise be deleted.
Policy
If you become aware of any internal or external complaint, demand letter, lawsuit, or other legal proceeding
Consumer Personal involving Adobe, you must notify the Adobe Legal department immediately. You are expected to comply with
Information Retention any d ocumFiennta rnecteinatli oRne opr oprretsienrvga tion instructions that you receive from the Adobe Legal department.
Standard
Employee and Applicant
Personal Information
Retention and Deletion Adobe is required by law to file public reports and communications with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Standard Commission (the “SEC”), and with other governmental bodies around the world, that provide full, accurate,
and understandable disclosure of our financial condition and results of our business operations. Adobe relies
on its financial records and other business records in preparing these reports. We follow U.S. generally
REPORTING A
accepted accounting principles to produce our financial records.
CONCERN
Adobe’s financial disclosures must be accurate and transparent and reflect the high quality and integrity of
our accounting practices and records. Anyone who contributes to preparing or verifying these SEC reports is
If you become aware of
responsible for ensuring that the reports contain all relevant and important information to enable
any departure from these
financial reporting stockholders and potential investors to assess the soundness and risks of our business and finances.
standards, you have a
responsibility to report Your full cooperation with any investigation or review is expected to help ensure that Adobe’s books and
your knowledge promptly records, as well as our financial reports filed with the SEC (or filed with other governmental bodies, such as
to the Compliance Office,
with respect to Adobe’s subsidiaries worldwide), are accurate and complete.
the General Counsel, or
the Audit Committee of
You must never:
the Adobe Board of
Directors if appropriate. • Take any action that would cause our financial records or financial disclosures to fail to comply with
generally accepted accounting principles, the rules and regulations of the SEC, or any other
applicable laws.
• Knowingly make (or cause or encourage any other person to make) any false or misleading
statement in any of Adobe’s reports filed with the SEC or any other governmental bodies.
• Knowingly omit (or cause or encourage any other person to omit) any information that is necessary
to make Adobe’s financial reports accurate in all material respects.
• Coerce, manipulate, mislead, or fraudulently influence (or cause or encourage any other person to
coerce, manipulate, mislead, or fraudulently influence) Adobe’s independent public accountants if
you know or should have known that such actions could make our financial reports misleading.
RELATED RESOURCE
To highlight how important these standards are to Adobe, our Senior Officers are also bound by a separate
Code of Ethics in addition to this Code. These employees of Adobe have a special role that requires both
Code of Ethics for Senior adhering to this Code and ensuring that Adobe has a culture of integrity that promotes fair, accurate, and
Officers
timely reporting of our financial results and condition.
Global Trade Regulations
6. Our Community
As a U.S. company, all Adobe subsidiaries and employees worldwide are subject to U.S. and other applicable
trade regulations that prohibit the provision of our products and services to certain countries and regions
(currently: Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Syria, as well as the so-called Luhansk People’s Republic, the Donetsk
RELATED RESOURCE People’s Republic, and the Crimea region of Ukraine), to sanctioned entities and individuals, and for certain
end uses (including but not limited to weapons of mass destruction, proliferation, and military end uses).
These controls apply to all Adobe business dealings, including the provision of goods and services and
Trade Compliance Policy electronic transfers of software or information, as well as other activities like hiring people, financial
transactions, and even who is allowed to visit Adobe offices.
Trade Compliance
Portal
Adobe also complies with applicable anti-boycott rules, such as those administered by the U.S. Department of
US Sanctions Screening Commerce, which prohibit U.S. companies and their subsidiaries from cooperating with international boycotts
Tool not sanctioned by the U.S. Government. Adobe expects you to be aware of the basic trade control concepts
that affect your role and job duties. Please visit the Adobe Trade Compliance Portal (link at left) to learn more
about Adobe’s trade compliance obligations and how they may affect your role. If you know or suspect any
activity that may raise a concern, you should promptly notify your manager and contact the International
Trade Compliance Team at export@adobe.com for additional guidance.
April 2023 | 10 of 13AdobeCode of Business Conduct
Anti-Corruption Compliance
RELATED RESOURCE
Adobe believes in conducting business with the highest level of integrity. Under no circumstances do we allow
Global Anti-Corruption our personnel, or any third parties acting on our behalf, to give or receive bribes or kickbacks in order to
Policy influence a business outcome or obtain favorable treatment. We also keep accurate and complete records of
our transactions. We do not allow anyone to falsify or conceal the improper use of our funds.
We comply with all anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws that apply to our business. In particular, Adobe is
subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and other similar international and local
laws and regulations. Before you give or even offer or authorize or receive anything of value to or from a
government official, or to or from any other person, you are responsible for understanding Adobe’s policies
and obtaining all necessary pre-approvals.
Adobe is responsible for any third parties (sales partners, vendors, or suppliers) acting on our behalf while
doing business, so we must ensure these third parties comply with Adobe’s policies and processes and are
properly vetted and re-assessed throughout the business relationship. Our Adobe’s Business Partner Code of
Conduct articulates our commitment to integrity and our expectations of our business partners. Check our
Integrity page at Inside Adobe for more guidance: https://inside.corp.adobe.com/integrity/third-party-
comp liancCeh.hatmrilt able Donations
We take pride in contributing time and talent to invest in our communities. Adobe also makes charitable
donations through its Corporate Responsibility programs that are properly vetted and approved by our
Compliance Office, in accordance with the Business Gifts and Hospitality Policy and aligned with our
enterprise wide priorities and core beliefs. . As part of our contributions, we donate our products to schools
and non-profit organizations to supply them with the same best-in-class tools used by the world’s leading
professionals.
Adobe encourages you to personally support charitable causes of your choice, as long as your support does
not interfere with your work, give rise to a potential conflict of interest, or use Adobe equipment, funds, or
other company assets. In many instances, Adobe supports your personal charitable donations by matching
your monetary contributions and offering grants to eligible organizations to support volunteer service by
Adob e emPpulobyeliecs vPioa loiucry C Erenatgea Cgheamngee nprto agrnadm .P olitical Contributions
Public policy engagement is an important and appropriate role for companies and employees when conducted
in a legal and transparent manner. Adobe participates in public policy development and the political process
in compliance with all applicable laws and reporting requirements, and we encourage our employees to do
the same.
Political involvement is governed by specific laws and is often a highly regulated area. If you are considering
becoming politically involved, you are encouraged to contact the Public Policy and Government Relations team
for guidance prior to getting involved. Adobe’s policies and procedures for political activities are set forth in
the P ublicA PIo Elictyh aicnsd Government Relations Policy.
At Adobe, we have a decade-long history of Artificial Intelligence (AI) Innovation. We believe that AI done
right will amplify human creativit y and intelligence to new levels, which is why we are committed to advancing
AI in an ethical, responsible, and inclusive way that makes the tech and its impact better for both our
customers and our communities.
We have built a comprehensive AI Ethics program to ensure we’re developing AI technologies in a way that
respects our customers and aligns with our values. Our approach to AI development starts with our AI Ethics
principles – Accountability, Responsibility and Transparency.
Guided by our AI Ethics Principles, we have created standardized processes from design to development to
deployment, including training, testing and a review process overseen by a diverse AI Ethics Review Board, to
manage risk without slowing down the pace of innovation. Check our Ethical Innovation page at Inside Adobe
for m ore iSnufosrtmaaitnioanb: ihltittpys ://inside.corp.adobe.com/integrity/ethical-innovation.html.
RELATED RESOURCES
We practice sustainability in everything we do -- through our products, operations, and partnerships. Our
Sustainability Statement
products enable our customers to achieve their sustainability goals through more sustainable design,
Corporate Responsibility
business, and marketing practices while conserving resources. We are committed to operational excellence
page on Adobe.com
through striving for carbon and waste-free growth and have committed to ambitio us renewable energy goals
and science-based targets. We take pride in being a sustainability leader and we commit to transparency by
reporting our progress in our annual Corporate Social Responsibility reports and through stakeholder
April 2023 | 11 of 13AdobeCode of Business Conduct
engagement and partnerships. Most importantly, we foster a culture of environmental sustainability
worldwide.
7. Compliance with the Law
Adobe firmly believes in fostering global citizenship and complying with all applicable laws in countries where
we operate. To guide your actions, Adobe maintains company policies that establish operating requirements
on important topics. These policies are available on Adobe’s Corporate Policies page on Inside Adobe.
This Code is based primarily on U.S. laws. However, if applicable local laws are more restrictive than this Code,
you must comply with those local laws. Otherwise, you are expected to comply with this Code always, even if
your conduct would be permitted under local laws. If you work outside the U.S., it is your responsibility to
uIfn ydoeurs atarned u anncde rcotaminp lwy hweitthh elorc aal plaawrtsi caunlda rp oalcictiieosn i nis t hpee ramreias swibhleer,e y yoouu schoonuduldc tr beufrsainines fsr. om engaging in
the action and seek guidance from your manager. If you feel that you cannot talk directly with your
manager or if you believe your manager may not be neutral on the matter, you should seek guidance
or raise your concerns through the other channels described under the How To Report Suspected
Violations section of this Code (Section 2.1).
8. Violations
Adobe takes allegations seriously and promptly conducts investigations into reported incidents. Anyone who
is found to violate this Code or other Adobe policies may be subject to immediate disciplinary action including
termination of employment or affiliation with Adobe.
9. Waivers
A waiver of this Code requires approval of the Chief Compliance Officer or General Counsel. The Adobe Board
of Directors or a committee of the Board, to the extent permitted by applicable regulatory and NASDAQ rules,
must also approve any waiver of this Code with respect to Adobe’s executive officers (which may include, as
required by applicable laws, our principal executive officer; principal financial officer; principal accounting
officer or controller; or persons performing similar functions) or members of our Board of Directors. Any
waiver may be disclosed to stockholders as required by applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
10. Responsibility and Related Documents
The groups indicated below are responsible for the following:
ADOBE Read, understand, and follow the standards and procedures in this Code
PERSONNEL Communicate the requirements of this Code to third parties, as necessary
Comply with any training requirements or controls established by the Adobe
Compliance Office
MANAGERS Discuss and reinforce the requirements in this Code with direct reports and third
parties, as necessary
Be available to discuss concerns or answer questions related to the standards and
procedures in and related to this Code
Monitor compliance by your direct reports with any training requirements or controls
established by the Adobe Compliance Office
ADOBE Update the standards and procedures in this Code as necessary
COMPLIANCE Communicate the principles of this Code and assist Adobe personnel in complying
OFFICE with this Code
Investigate or oversee any reported suspected violations of this Code and take any
necessary enforcement action
Administer training on this Code and determine control measures to ensure
compliance with this Code
T he following documents are related to this policy:
• Business Gifts and Hospitality Policy
• Business Travel and Expense Reimbursement Policy
• Code of Ethics for Senior Officers
April 2023 | 12 of 13AdobeCode of Business Conduct
• Conflicts of Interest Master Policy
• Consumer Personal Information Retention Standard – This standard establishes Adobe's retention and
deletion practices for consumer personal information and relates to section 5.6 of Code of Business
Conduct.
• Contract Signature Policy
• Corporate Responsibility
• Drug-Free Workplace Policy
• Electronic Communications Policy
• Employee and Applicant Personal Information Retention and Deletion Standard - Describes Adobe’s legal
requirements for retention, storage, and deletion of all data, files, records, agreements, contracts,
correspondence relating to Adobe Workers. Referenced in section 5.6 of Code of Business Conduct.
• Employee Privacy Policy
• Equal Employment Opportunity Policy
• Facilities Usage Policy
• Global Anti-Corruption Policy
• Global Environmental Health & Safety Guidelines
• Government Gifts and Hospitality Matrix
• Harassment and Discrimination Prevention Policy
• Information Security Policies
• Insider Trading Policy and Stock Trading Compliance Center
• Non-Retaliation Policy
• Personal Information Retention and Deletion Policy
• Privacy Center and Customer Privacy Policy
• Public Policy and Government Relations Policy
• Reasonable Accommodation Policy
• Side Arrangements Policy
• Software Management Standard– Covers legal use of company owned software or software deployed on
company owned assets, as referenced in section 3.3 of Code of Business Conduct.
• Social Media Resources
• Sustainability Policy
• Tobacco-Free Workplace Policy
• Trade Compliance Policy and Portal
• U.S. Public Sector Handbook
• Violence Prevention Policy
April 2023 | 13 of 13