Business Conduct
The way we do business
February 2024Contents
3 The Way We Do Business Worldwide 11 Individual Accountability
3 Your Responsibilities and Obligation to Take Action 11 Avoiding Conflicts of Interest
4 Reporting a Concern 11 Significant Personal Relationships
4 No Retaliation 11 Rotations (Operations Only)
5 Your Rights as an Employee 11 Conflicts of Interest and Outside Activities
5 Human Rights 12 Outside Employment and Inventions
12 App Creation
6 Workplace Behaviors
12 Board Positions
6 Drugs and Alcohol 13 Personal Investments
6 Environment, Health, and Safety (EH&S) 13 Insider Trading
6 Harassment and Discrimination 13 Charitable Donations
14 Political Contributions
7 Protecting Apple
14 Personal Political Activities
7 Protecting Apple’s Assets and Information 14 Gifts
7 Apple Confidential Information 16 Gifts to Public Officials
7 Non-Disclosure/Confidentiality Agreements
17 Business Integrity
7 Customer and Third-Party Information
7 Accuracy of Records and Reports 17 Governments as Customers
8 Records and Information Management 17 Hiring Government Employees
8 Side Deals or Side Letters 17 Bribery and Corruption
8 The Apple Identity and Trademarks 18 Money Laundering
8 Third-Party Intellectual Property 18 Competition and Trade Practices
9 Copyright-Protected Content 18 Obtaining and Using Business Intelligence
9 Apple Inventions, Patents, and Copyrights 18 Trade Restrictions and Import/Export Controls
9 Activities Related to Technical Standards 19 Private Employee Information
9 Activities Related to Open Source Software 19 Human Trafficking
9 Public Speaking and Press Inquiries
10 Publishing Articles 20 Resources
10 Endorsements 20 Policies and ReferencesIntroduction Behaviors Protecting Apple Accountability Integrity Resources
The way we do business worldwide
At Apple, we are committed to demonstrating that business can and should be a force for good.
Achieving that takes innovation, collaboration, and a focus on serving others.
It also means leading with our values — accessibility, education, environment, inclusion and diversity,
privacy, racial equity and justice, and supplier responsibility. Our Business Conduct Policy is
foundational to how we do business and how we put our values into practice each and every day.
Apple conducts business ethically, honestly, and in full compliance with applicable laws and
regulations. This applies to every business decision in every area of the company worldwide.
The following principles guide Apple’s business practices:
• Honesty—Demonstrate honesty and high ethical standards in all business dealings.
• Respect—Treat customers, partners, suppliers, employees, and others with respect and courtesy.
• Confidentiality—Protect Apple’s confidential information and the information of our customers, partners, suppliers, and
employees.
• Compliance—Ensure that business decisions comply with applicable laws and regulations.
Apple expects its suppliers, contractors, consultants, and other business partners to follow these principles when providing
goods and services to Apple or acting on our behalf. Apple also requires its suppliers to comply with the Apple Supplier
Code of Conduct.
The Business Conduct Policy applies to all full and part-time employees of Apple and its subsidiaries, and provides a
standard guide for what is required of everyone at Apple. Relevant sections also apply to members of Apple’s Board of
Directors. The Business Conduct Policy also provides information on additional resources available to employees, including
the Business Conduct Helpline and the Business Conduct website, which contains guidance and frequently asked
questions to assist employees in understanding Apple’s approach to Business Conduct.
All employees are required to complete annual, online Business Conduct training, and review and certify their
understanding of the Business Conduct Policy. Employees are also required to complete online Respect at Apple and
Privacy trainings, and depending on job responsibilities and location, may be required to participate in additional mandatory
online trainings on specific topics, such as anti-corruption. Focused live training is also arranged periodically on Business
Conduct and other relevant topics.
On rare occasions, local laws may impose requirements on Apple and its employees that differ from those set out in the
Business Conduct Policy. Contact a local People Business Partner for more information on how these laws may apply to
you.
Any waiver of this Policy for our directors, executive officers, or principal accounting officer may be made only by our Board
of Directors, and will be disclosed as required by law or applicable listing rules.
Business Conduct February 2024 3Introduction Behaviors Protecting Apple Accountability Integrity Resources
Your Responsibilities and Obligation to Take Action
Everything we do is a reflection of Apple. We expect you to:
• Follow the Policy. Comply with the letter and spirit of Apple’s Business Conduct Policy and all applicable legal
requirements.
• Speak up. If you see or hear of any violation of Apple’s Business Conduct Policy, other Apple policies, or legal or
regulatory requirements, you must notify either your manager, People Team, Legal, orBusiness Conduct.
• Use good judgment and ask questions. Apply Apple’s principles of business conduct, and review our policies and legal
requirements. When in doubt about how to proceed, discuss it with your manager, your People Business Partner, Legal,
or Business Conduct. Any failure to comply with Apple’s Business Conduct Policy—or failure to report a violation—may
result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.
You are also required to fully cooperate in any Apple investigation, and keep any information shared with you confidential to
safeguard the integrity of the investigation.
Reporting a Concern
To report a concern or ask a question about Apple’s Business Conduct Policy, you can contact Business Conduct by phone,
email, or web form. For contact details, visit the Business Conduct website or the Resources section at the end of this
policy. Apple’s external helpline (apple.ethicspoint.com) also allows employees and external parties to report concerns with
the option of remaining anonymous, where permissible under applicable laws. The external helpline provides local, toll-free
phone numbers that connect employees and external parties to a multilingual reporting service.
Your information will be shared only with those who have a need to know to help answer your questions or investigate
concerns, ensure the prompt enforcement of this Policy, and, if appropriate, determine disciplinary action. If your
information involves accounting, finance, or auditing, the law may require that necessary information be shared with the
Audit and Finance Committee of the Board of Directors. Apple’s Business Conduct Policy is administered by the Business
Conduct organization, under the oversight of Apple’s Chief Compliance Officer, who provides regular updates to the Audit
and Finance Committee of the Board of Directors. The Business Conduct team is available to support all employees and
answer questions on business conduct issues, policies, regulations, and compliance with legal requirements.
Apple’s Global Whistleblowing Policy provides additional information about Apple’s approach to protecting and supporting
individuals who report potential misconduct.
No Retaliation
Apple will not retaliate—and will not tolerate retaliation—against any individual for reporting a good-faith concern or
complaint internally or externally or for participating in the investigation of a concern or complaint.
Retaliation under this policy occurs when Apple or one of its employees takes an action adversely affecting the career, pay,
scope of role, or working conditions of an individual because the individual:
• Reported or participated in the investigation of a potential violation of our policies or the law; or
• Engaged in legally protected activity, including related to leaves of absence or job accommodations, or forming or joining
(or refraining from joining) labor organizations of an employee’s choice in a lawful manner.
In addition to violating this policy, some instances of retaliation may be unlawful.
Business Conduct February 2024 4Introduction Behaviors Protecting Apple Accountability Integrity Resources
Other behaviors that dissuade people from raising concerns or asking questions about complying with Apple’s policies or
legal obligations are also unacceptable under this policy and other Apple policies.
Your Rights as an Employee
You are permitted to speak freely about your wages, hours, and working conditions, including information about
harassment, discrimination, or any other conduct you have reason to believe is unlawful, and nothing in this Policy, or any
Apple policy, should be interpreted as being restrictive of your right to do so.
Human Rights
Apple is committed to respecting internationally recognized human rights. Apple’s approach to respecting human rights
is based on the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the global standard on business and
human rights. For more information, see the Human Rights Policy.
Business Conduct February 2024 5Introduction Behaviors Protecting Apple Accountability Integrity Resources
Workplace Behaviors
Drugs and Alcohol
Apple cares about the health and safety of our employees. You are expected to comply with Apple’s guidelines regarding
alcohol, drugs, and smoking, whether it is in the workplace, at Apple-sponsored events, or while conducting Apple
business. You are not permitted to be under the influence of any legal or illegal drug that impairs your ability to perform
your job, and employees are prohibited from manufacturing, soliciting, distributing, possessing, or using any illegal drugs or
substances in the workplace, or while working. Use good judgment and keep in mind that you are expected to perform to
your full ability at work. For more information, see the Alcohol, Drugs and Smoke-Free Environment Policy.
Environment, Health, and Safety (EH&S)
Apple is committed to protecting the environment, health, and safety of our employees, customers, and the global
communities where we operate.
Apple’s EH&S team provides guidance on how to conduct your job while meeting or exceeding all applicable
environmental, health, and safety requirements. Use good judgment and always put the environment, health, and safety
first. Work proactively with the EH&S team to anticipate and manage EH&S risks in a timely manner.
For more information on the EH&S team, policies, training, and programs, visit the EH&S website.
Harassment and Discrimination
Apple is dedicated to maintaining a creative, diverse, inclusive, and supportive work environment, and does not tolerate
discrimination or harassment of employees or non-employees with whom we have a business, service, or professional
relationship. This applies to all interactions where you represent Apple, including interactions with employees, customers,
suppliers, and applicants for employment. For more information, see the Equal Employment Opportunity Policy and People
policies for your region.
If you believe you have been harassed or discriminated against, or have witnessed such behavior, visit Reporting a
Concern. We encourage you to report the incident using any avenue with which you feel most comfortable, including your
Apple manager, People Support, your People Business Partner, or Business Conduct.
We also do not tolerate workplace violence of any kind. For more information, see the Workplace Violence Policy.
Business Conduct February 2024 6Introduction Behaviors Protecting Apple Accountability Integrity Resources
Protecting Apple
Protecting Apple’s Assets and Information
You play a key role in helping us protect Apple. Assets include Apple’s proprietary information (such as intellectual
property, confidential business plans, unannounced product plans, sales and marketing strategies, and other trade
secrets), as well as physical assets such as cash, equipment, supplies and product inventory.
• Watch what you say. Being aware of where you are, who is around you, and what they might see or overhear is an
important way we all protect Apple’s secrets.
• Protect our assets. Keep track of the assets and information Apple has entrusted to you, and prevent loss, misuse,
waste, or theft.
• Set an example. Model behavior that protects our assets and information at all times.
Apple Confidential Information
One of our greatest assets is information about our products and services, including future product offerings. Never
disclose confidential, operational, financial, trade-secret, or other business information without verifying with your
manager whether such disclosure is appropriate. We are very selective when disclosing this type of information to vendors,
suppliers, or other third parties, and only do so once a non-disclosure agreement is in place. Even within Apple, confidential
information should only be shared on a need-to-know basis. The Intellectual Property Agreement that you signed when
you joined Apple outlines your duty to protect our information.
For more information, visit the Global Security website.
Non-Disclosure/Confidentiality Agreements
Never share confidential information about Apple’s products or services without your manager’s approval. When there is
a business need to share confidential information with a supplier, vendor, or other third party, never volunteer more than
what is necessary to address the business at hand. Any confidential information shared outside Apple should be covered
by a non-disclosure/confidentiality agreement (NDA). To learn more about NDAs and the NDA process, visit Legal’s NDA
website.
Customer and Third-Party Information
Customers, partners, suppliers, and other third parties may disclose confidential information to Apple during the course
of business. We are all responsible for protecting and maintaining the confidentiality of any information entrusted to us by
our partners. Compromising that trust may damage relations with our partners and can also result in legal liability. For more
information, see the Apple Customer Privacy Policy.
Accuracy of Records and Reports
Accurate and honest records are critical to meeting our legal, financial, and management obligations. You should ensure
that all records and reports, including expense reports, timecards, customer information, technical and product information,
correspondence, and public communications are comprehensive, fair, accurate, timely, and understandable.
Do not misstate facts, omit critical information, or modify records or reports in any way to mislead others, and never assist
others in doing so. Intentional manipulation of Apple records is a form of fraud.
Business Conduct February 2024 7Introduction Behaviors Protecting Apple Accountability Integrity Resources
You are responsible for observing all policies and procedures regarding business expenses, including meal and travel
expenses, and for submitting accurate expense reimbursement reports. Guidelines on daily meal expenses vary worldwide.
For more information, see the Travel and Expense Policy.
Records and Information Management
Apple owns all records and information in any form, such as electronic or paper, that is created or received in the course
of doing Apple’s business. Records are a type of information that must be kept because the information meets certain
criteria, and are identified in the Global Records Retention Schedule. Examples include corporate tax documents, financial
statements, design documents, and personnel records.
Employees are responsible for managing and protecting information and records in accordance with the Global Records
and Information Management (RIM) Policy. Privacy laws may dictate how long these records can be retained. At times,
Apple will need to retain records and information beyond the normal retention period for legal reasons or audits. If you have
records and information that are categorized as under a “legal hold” you should not alter, destroy, or delete them in any
way. Legal will notify you of any legal holds you may be subjected to and what is required.
For more information, see the Global Records & Information Management website or contact the Global Records & Infor-
mation Management team.
Side Deals or Side Letters
Apple formally documents all terms and conditions of the agreements into which it enters. Contractual terms and
conditions define Apple’s rights, obligations, liabilities, and accounting treatments. We do not accept business
commitments outside of the formal contracting process managed by Legal. Side deals, side letters, or other informal
documentation created by employees without Legal oversight are impermissible. You should not make any oral or written
commitments that create a new agreement or modify an existing agreement without securing approval through the formal
contracting process.
The Apple Identity and Trademarks
The Apple name, names of products (such as iPhone), names of services (such as AppleCare), taglines (such as ”Think
Different”), and logos collectively create the Apple identity. Before publicly using any of these assets, review the Trademark
List, Trademark and Copyright Guidelines, and Corporate Identity Guidelines for how to properly do so. You should also
check with Legal before using the product names, service names, taglines, or logos of any third parties.
Third-Party Intellectual Property
Apple respects third-party intellectual property. Never use the intellectual property of any third party without permission
or legal right. If you are told or suspect that Apple may be infringing on third-party intellectual property, including patents,
copyrights, trademarks, or trade secrets, contact Legal.
Business Conduct February 2024 8Introduction Behaviors Protecting Apple Accountability Integrity Resources
Copyright-Protected Content
Never use or copy software, music, videos, publications, or other copyright-protected content at work or for business
purposes unless you or Apple are legally permitted to use or make copies of the protected content. You should never use
Apple facilities or equipment to make or store unauthorized copies. For more information about personal content on Apple-
owned devices, see the Employee Use of Electronic Systems and Communications Policy.
Apple Inventions, Patents and Copyrights
Apple has a robust patent program that protects innovations related to our current or future products and services. You
should submit your invention disclosure to the Apple Patent team via the Apple Patent System. It’s best to submit your
invention disclosure well before you share an invention outside of Apple, even if under an NDA, because doing so may
compromise Apple’s patent rights.
You may pursue, for your own personal ownership, inventions that (a) are not developed using Apple equipment, supplies,
facilities, or proprietary information; (b) did not result from and were not suggested by work performed by you, Apple, or
Apple proprietary information; and (c) are not related to Apple’s current or anticipated business, products, research or
development.
Be alert to possible infringement of Apple’s patents and notify Legal of any possible infringements. If you create original
material for Apple that requires copyright protection, such as software, place Apple’s copyright notice on the work and
submit a copyright disclosure form to Legal. For more information, see the Copyright Policy.
Activities Related to Technical Standards
You must secure management and Legal approval before participating in any activities related to technical standards.
This includes joining a standards organization or working group, contributing technology or code to a standard, or using
a standard in the development of an Apple product. For more information, see the Standards Legal Policy or contact the
Standards Legal team.
Activities Related to Open Source Software
Open source software is usually collectively developed software with its source code made available under an open source
license. Before using, modifying, or distributing any open source software for Apple infrastructure, or as part of an Apple
product or service development effort, you must receive management and Legal approval. For additional information on
how to submit requests, visit Open Source at Apple. This website also includes information about personal contributions to
Open Source and required approvals.
Public Speaking and Press Inquiries
All public or outside speaking engagements that relate to Apple’s business, products, or services must be pre-approved
by your manager and Corporate Communications. If your request is approved, you may not request or accept any form of
personal compensation from the organization that requested your participation, but you may accept reimbursement for
incurred expenses. All inquiries from the media, industry, or financial analyst community must be referred to Corporate
Communications or Investor Relations.
Business Conduct February 2024 9Introduction Behaviors Protecting Apple Accountability Integrity Resources
Publishing Articles
If you want to contribute an article or other type of submission to a publication or blog on a topic that relates to
Apple’s business or products or could be seen as a conflict of interest, you must first request approval from Corporate
Communications. If your contribution is technical or academic and relates to Apple, complete the Academic and Industry-
Related Activities Questionnaire to obtain review from Legal and Business Conduct. If your contribution is determined to
be a conflict of interest, you will need to get senior vice president approval. For additional information, see the Social Media
and Online Communications guidelines.
Employees in the Machine Learning organization should follow the Guidelines for Academic Activities of Apple Employees
in Machine Learning.
Endorsements
You should never endorse a product or service of another business or individual in your role as Apple employee, unless
the endorsement has been approved by your manager and Corporate Communications. This does not apply to statements
made in the normal course of business about third-party products sold by Apple. If you want to provide a personal
reference, review the Employment Reference Guidelines.
Business Conduct February 2024 10Introduction Behaviors Protecting Apple Accountability Integrity Resources
Individual Accountability
Avoiding Conflicts of Interest
A conflict of interest is any activity that may damage Apple’s reputation or financial interests, or gives the appearance
of impropriety or divided loyalty. Avoid any situation that creates a real or perceived conflict of interest. If you are unsure
about a potential conflict, talk to your manager, Business Conduct, or your People Business Partner.
Members of Apple’s Board of Directors should follow the requirements and procedures described in the Guidelines
Regarding Director Conflicts of Interest.
The following are common situations employees may encounter that could present a conflict of interest.
Significant Personal Relationships
Personal relationships in the workplace can present a real or perceived conflict of interest when one individual
in the relationship makes or influences employment decisions regarding the other, including performance or
compensation.
Significant personal relationships include, but are not limited to, spouses, domestic partners, family members,
dating or physical relationships, close friends, and business relationships outside of Apple. Apple business
relationships include, but are not limited to, vendors, customers, suppliers, contractors, temporary agency
workers, or similar relationships.
Do not conduct Apple business with family members or others with whom you have a significant personal
relationship. Do not use your position at Apple to obtain favored treatment for yourself, family members, or
others with whom you have a personal relationship. This applies to product purchases or sales, investment
opportunities, hiring, promoting, selecting contractors or suppliers, and any other business matter.
If you believe that you have a potential conflict involving a family member or other individual, disclose it to your
manager and your People Business Partner to review and work through any potential conflicts.
You should not allow any relationship to disrupt the workplace or interfere with your work or judgment.
In rare cases where exceptions may be appropriate, written approval from the senior vice president of your
organization is required.
Rotations (Operations Only)
Operations managers are responsible for ensuring that their employees who make or significantly influence
sourcing, contractual, financial or capacity decisions with suppliers change position every three years so as to
work with different suppliers. Exceptions are subject to VP review and approval each year. “Suppliers” include
anyone who had, has, or might have any business connection (directly or indirectly) with Apple or Apple’s
supply chain.
Conflicts of Interest and Outside Activities
You may participate in outside activities, including secondary employment, businesses, inventions, and serving
on boards, only if they do not present a conflict of interest and you adhere to the rules set out below.
Business Conduct February 2024 11Introduction Behaviors Protecting Apple Accountability Integrity Resources
Apple generally considers an outside activity to be a conflict of interest if it:
• Is for a business, company, or organization that makes or sells competing products or services to Apple, or
that Apple is reasonably anticipated to create. This includes but is not limited to: Apple hardware products
(e.g., computers, mobile devices, headphones), financial services, original content, health services, cloud
services, any distribution of video, music or eBooks, and any software or app.
• Generates or exposes you to intellectual property that competes with or relates to Apple’s present or
reasonably anticipated business, products, or services.
• Would require you to disclose or use confidential Apple information.
• Arises from your role in Apple’s business relationship with the organization.
An outside activity that is the same as or similar to your role or work at Apple could also be considered a
conflict of interest. Review the Business Conduct website for more information.
Work with your manager and Business Conduct to evaluate a potential conflict of interest. If an outside activity
presents a conflict of interest, you must partner with a People Business Partner, and obtain written approval
from your manager, Legal (if applicable), and the senior most person reporting to the CEO of both your and any
relevant organizations. Contact Business Conduct to assist with Legal review.
Any employee, full or part-time, who is participating in an outside activity, must comply with the following rules.
Do not:
• Use any time at work or any Apple assets for your outside activity. This includes Apple’s workspace, phones,
computers, Internet access, photocopiers, and any other Apple assets or services.
• Use your position at Apple to solicit resources or any other benefit for your outside activity, obtain favored
treatment, or pressure others to assist you.
• Participate in an activity that could have an adverse effect on your ability to perform your duties at Apple.
• Use confidential Apple information.
Outside Employment and Inventions
Before participating in creating inventions or businesses that are in the same area as your work for Apple, or that
compete with or relate to Apple’s present or reasonably anticipated business, products or services, you must
have written permission from your manager and the senior vice president of your organization. Before taking any
paid employment outside of Apple, you should notify your manager.
App Creation
You can only create apps for personal or educational purposes. You cannot join the Developer Program or
share, sell, or distribute apps, stickers, or other media (for iOS, Android, or any other operating system), unless
required for Apple business purposes. Some exceptions apply for employees who created apps before joining
Apple or who are joining Apple for a short period of time. If this applies to you, contact Business Conduct to
understand what is permitted.
Board Positions
You may not serve as a director, trustee, officer, or advisory board member without prior approval from Apple.
Apple has pre-approved positions in certain organizations like residential boards (i.e., HOAs) and local sports
and arts organizations, provided their activities do not conflict with Apple’s interests. Contact Business Conduct
if you have any questions or if you would like to seek approval from Apple for a position that is not in a pre-
Business Conduct February 2024 12Introduction Behaviors Protecting Apple Accountability Integrity Resources
approved category. A board position that presents a potential or actual conflict of interest is unlikely to be
approved.
The rule above relates to serving on a board in your individual capacity. If you have been asked to serve on a
board as a representative of Apple, you should work with your manager, Legal, and any impacted business
teams to determine if Apple should participate, and whether you are the best person to represent Apple on that
board. If the position is on a public sector advisory board, work with Business Conduct to assess whether your
participation would impact Apple’s ability to interact with that government agency. You should also consult with
Corporate Communications, if applicable.
Personal Investments
You should avoid investing in companies that are Apple competitors or business partners when the investment
presents a conflict of interest. When determining whether a personal investment creates a conflict of interest,
consider if you are in a position to influence transactions between Apple and a business in which you have
invested. If a real or apparent conflict arises, disclose the conflict to your manager. Your manager will help
determine whether a conflict exists and, if appropriate, the best approach to eliminate the conflict. If you still
need help, contact Business Conduct.
Insider Trading
Never buy or sell Apple securities, including Apple stock, if you are aware of information that has not been publicly
announced and that could have a material effect on the value of the securities. It is illegal and against Apple policy
to give anyone, including friends and family, tips on when to buy or sell securities when aware of material nonpublic
information concerning that security. This applies to decisions to buy or sell Apple stock or the stock of an Apple supplier,
manufacturer, vendor, or customer, such as cellular network carriers or other channel partners.
Information is material if it would likely be considered important by an investor who is deciding whether to buy or sell a
security, or if the information is likely to have a significant effect on the market price of the security. Both positive and
negative information may be considered material. Examples of potential material information include financial results,
information about new products or significant features, timing of significant product announcements or new product
introductions, news of a pending or proposed acquisition or other corporate transaction, significant changes in sources
or availability of supplies, changes in dividend policy, significant product defects or modifications, and significant
cybersecurity, or other data protection or privacy incidents.
Short sales, transactions that hedge or offset, or are designed to hedge or offset any decrease in the value of Apple
securities and transactions in derivatives of Apple stock, are prohibited at all times, including transactions involving prepaid
variable forward contracts, equity swaps, collars, options, warrants, puts, calls, or similar instruments related to shares of
Apple stock.
For more information about restrictions on trading in securities as well as answers to FAQs, see the Insider Trading Policy or
email Insider Trading.
Charitable Donations
You are encouraged to support charitable causes of your choosing as long as you do not use or furnish Apple assets
(including your work time or use of Apple premises, equipment, or funds). Any charitable donations involving Apple
assets are managed by the Corporate Donations team and must be approved by the VP of Environment, Policy, & Social
Business Conduct February 2024 13Introduction Behaviors Protecting Apple Accountability Integrity Resources
Initiatives. Any donation of 100K USD or more also requires the approval of the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial
Officer. For additional information, see the Finance Policy on charitable donations. This policy does not prevent you from
taking advantage of the Apple Matching Gifts Program to contribute to a nonprofit organization of your choice, or from
participating in our Global Volunteer Program.
Political Contributions
Apple does not make political contributions to individual candidates or political parties. All corporate political contributions,
whether monetary or in-kind (including lending or donating equipment or technical services), must be approved in
advance by Apple’s CEO, and processed by Government Affairs and Political Compliance to ensure compliance with
legal requirements and Apple policy. You may not use Apple resources, including employee work time, Apple premises,
equipment, or funds, to personally support candidates and campaigns. It is also illegal for Apple to reimburse an employee
for a political contribution. For more information, see the Corporate Political Compliance Policy and the Apple Public Policy
Advocacy website.
Personal Political Activities
You are free to personally participate in political activities, including running for and serving in public positions, and
supporting candidates and causes, as long as you comply with the points below:
• Do not represent or give the impression that you are representing Apple during any political activities or in campaign
materials.
• Do not make public comments that could be misconstrued as being made on behalf of Apple, or give the impression that
Apple is endorsing any particular legislation, position, or issue.
• Do not use Apple work time, equipment, or resources for political or campaign activities.
• If holding a public office, you may need to recuse yourself from any matters involving Apple.
Gifts
Giving or accepting gifts can create a real or perceived conflict of interest and can lead to a perception of favoritism or an
expectation of reciprocity that could compromise an employee’s objectivity. This policy applies to giving or accepting gifts
to or from current or potential vendors, suppliers, customers, or other business associates with whom you have a current or
potential business relationship. Gifts between employees don’t fall under this policy.
A gift is considered anything of value, including a meal, travel, entertainment (including tickets), Apple logo items,
equipment (including loans), or discounts. Gifts must be legal, and gifts given with the purpose of influencing a decision
are always prohibited. Gifts that are cash or cash equivalents, such as gift cards, are never allowed. Paying for a gift without
getting reimbursement from Apple does not remove the requirement to comply with the gift policy.
Apple employees are under either a zero gift rule or a $150 gift rule, depending on their organization. Refer to the Gifts
page on the Business Conduct website to determine the rule that applies to you. Employees under a zero gift rule may not
give or accept gifts of any value unless one of the key exceptions below applies. Employees under the $150 gift rule may
only give or accept gifts if the value is $150 or less, unless one of the key exceptions below applies.
Key Exceptions
Gifts that fall under one of the following exceptions are permissible for most employees, regardless of gift rule (additional
Business Conduct February 2024 14Introduction Behaviors Protecting Apple Accountability Integrity Resources
approval requirements may be noted):
• Business meals. With the exception of Apple Store employees, employees may provide and accept reasonable and
appropriate business-related meals, provided they are limited in frequency and expense. Any meals paid for by Apple
must comply with Apple’s Travel and Expense Reimbursement Finance Policy. Employees in Operations must obtain
approval from their manager to accept business meals. Approval should occur beforehand when possible.
• Low-value items. With the exception of Operations and Apple Store employees, employees may accept low-value and
infrequent promotional items or other nominal tokens of appreciation.
• Business-related event attendance. With the exception of Operations and Apple Store employees, free tickets for
sporting events and other forms of entertainment where participation is directly related to an employee’s job function
and part of legitimate Apple business are not considered a gift under Apple’s policy. If you are unsure if attendance
at an event is directly related to your role, check with your manager. For high-value or high-profile events, you should
review your attendance with your manager and your vice president. Employees should never use relationships built
through Apple business for their personal advantage, such as obtaining tickets that are difficult to access, since that is
preferential treatment and could be considered a conflict of interest.
• Conferences. With the exception of Operations and Apple Store employees, free tickets to conferences that are offered
by a vendor, supplier or other third party are permissible if the tickets are free to all attendees, offered as part of a
contract with Apple, or offered to all customers of a particular vendor. Tickets outside of those parameters do not fall
under an exception, and require approval if the value is over your gift limit. Conference tickets purchased by Apple are
not a gift.
• Vendor-supplied local ground transportation. Operations employees may accept reasonable local ground
transportation provided by vendors to and from work locations.
Any other exceptions must be approved by your vice president. For vice president–level employees, exceptions must be
approved by your manager.
Refusing and Returning Gifts
Gifts outside the limits of your gift rule should be declined or returned whenever possible. If it is impossible or inappropriate
to refuse or return a gift, you should notify your manager and People Business Partner immediately after accepting the gift,
then contact Business Conduct for further guidance. Perishable, non-alcohol gifts may be placed in a common area for
employees to share. For more information, see the Business Conduct website.
Samples
Current and potential vendors and suppliers may provide product samples to Apple for business evaluation purposes.
These samples are not gifts and may not be used for personal purposes. Receipt of samples should be documented
according to any internal division policies, and where appropriate, returned to the vendor and supplier when the evaluation
is complete.
Business Conduct February 2024 15Introduction Behaviors Protecting Apple Accountability Integrity Resources
Gifts to Public Officials
Apple permits providing gifts to public officials only when permissible under applicable laws and policies. A public official
is any person who is paid with government funds or performs a public function. This includes individuals who are elected
or appointed to public office, as well as individuals who work for local, state/provincial or national government, public
international organizations, public (government-owned or operated) schools, and state-owned or state-run enterprises.
Employees at such organizations are considered public officials regardless of title or position.
U.S. Public Officials
For U.S. public officials, anything other than refreshments of nominal value ($10 or less) must be pre-approved by Political
Compliance or comply with internal guidelines if available, including disclosure requirements
Non-U.S. Public Officials
In many countries, it is considered customary to provide token ceremonial gifts to government officials on certain
occasions. All gifts exceeding USD $10 in value require pre-approval from Political Compliance or your regional Apple legal
counsel. Meals that comply with posted guidance or a country are permissible and do not need pre-approval. Meals that
are frequent and/or lavish could appear to influence a business decision and are inappropriate.
Business Conduct February 2024 16Introduction Behaviors Protecting Apple Accountability Integrity Resources
Business Integrity
Governments as Customers
Governments are unique customers for Apple. They often have unique bidding, pricing, disclosure, and certification
requirements. When dealing with government customers, make sure to partner with Legal when bidding for business, and
contact Business Conduct with questions relating to compliance requirements.
Hiring Government Employees
Laws often limit the duties and types of services that former government, military, or other public sector employees
may perform as employees or consultants of Apple, especially in regard to matters they were involved in while with the
government. Employment negotiations with government employees may be subject to legal restrictions and disclosure
requirements, particularly if the government employee is involved in a matter involving Apple’s interests. Contact Political
Compliance before entering such negotiations. You may never hire any individual in exchange for securing or retaining
business, or securing an improper advantage. We also prohibit hiring preference being given to anyone in return for special
treatment of any kind. For more information, see the Anti-Corruption Recruiting Policy.
Bribery and Corruption
At Apple, we do not tolerate corruption in connection with any of our business dealings. Corruption can take many forms,
but most often it occurs through bribery. A bribe is offering or giving anything of value, including cash, cash equivalents
such as gift cards, gifts, meals, travel and entertainment, to any person for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business,
or securing an improper advantage. You cannot offer or receive bribes from any individual, regardless of whether that
individual is a public official or a private party. Kickbacks are a type of bribery, and occur when a person is offered money
or something of value in exchange for providing something, such as information, a discount or a favor, to a third party.
Kickbacks are not permissible and are strictly prohibited by Apple.
Facilitating payments are a type of bribe generally used to facilitate or expedite the performance of routine, non-
discretionary government action. These payments are not permissible and are strictly prohibited by Apple. Exceptions may
be made in circumstances that involve an imminent threat to health or safety, and such situations must be immediately
reported to Business Conduct.
Apple can be found responsible for bribes, kickbacks, and/or facilitating payments made by third parties in connection with
Apple’s business. Before engaging a third party that will be interacting with the government or public officials on Apple’s
behalf, contact Business Conduct to evaluate whether we need to conduct additional due diligence.
For more information, see the Anti-Corruption Policy and other resources available on the Business Conduct and Global
Compliance website.
Business Conduct February 2024 17Introduction Behaviors Protecting Apple Accountability Integrity Resources
Money Laundering
Money laundering occurs when individuals or organizations try to conceal illicit funds or make those funds look legitimate.
Money laundering is illegal and strictly prohibited by Apple. In certain countries, we are required to report suspicious
activity. If you deal directly with customers or vendors, the following examples may signal potential money laundering:
• Attempts to make large payments in cash
• Payments by someone who is not a party to the contract
• Requests to pay more than provided for in the contract
• Payments made in currencies other than those specified in the contract
• Payments from an unusual, nonbusiness account
• Transactions forming an unusual pattern such as bulk purchases of products or gift cards or repetitive cash payments
Competition and Trade Practices
Competition and innovation are at the core of Apple’s DNA. We vigorously compete to develop and create the very best
products for our customers. Apple will never seek to eliminate or reduce competition through illegal agreements with
competitors. Agreements with competitors are subject to rigorous scrutiny in all countries. Agreements with our resellers,
distributors, and suppliers can also give rise to scrutiny, particularly if Apple has a leading position in the market.
You should never:
• Agree with or exchange information with competitors regarding price, policies, contract terms, costs, inventories,
marketing plans, capacity plans, or other competitively significant data.
• Agree with competitors to divide or assign sales territories, products, or dedicate customers.
• Agree with resellers on the resale pricing of Apple products without legal approval. Resellers are free to determine their
own resale pricing.
• Violate fair bidding practices, including bidding quiet periods, or provide information to benefit one vendor over other
vendors.
• Remember: Always consult the Competition Law Team whenever you have a question. For more information, see
the Antitrust and Competition Law Policy.
Obtaining and Using Business Intelligence
Gathering information about customers, competitors, and markets in which we operate is a common business practice, but
you must always do so with integrity. You may generally obtain information from public sources, surveys, and competitive
research. Personal information shall not be obtained from third parties without confirming with Privacy. We do not seek
business intelligence by illegal or unethical means. It is never appropriate to engage in theft, espionage, or breach of a
non-disclosure agreement. If you obtain confidential nonpublic information, accidentally or provided by unknown sources,
that relates to a competitor, it may be unethical to use the information. If this happens to you, immediately contact your
manager, Legal, or Business Conduct.
Trade Restrictions and Import/Export Controls
Many countries periodically impose restrictions on imports, exports, and other dealings with certain countries, persons,
or groups. These can include the trading of commodities or technologies, travel to or from a sanctioned country, and
investments. Certain laws also prohibit support of boycott activities. If your work involves the sale or shipment of products,
technologies, or services across international borders, always consult Global Export and Sanctions Compliance before
moving goods. For more information, see the Export Control and Sanctions Policy.
Business Conduct February 2024 18Introduction Behaviors Protecting Apple Accountability Integrity Resources
Private Employee Information
You should never share a coworker or prospective employee’s personal information. This includes information regarding
their employment history, personal contact information, compensation, health information, or performance and disciplinary
matters. Any Legal or business need-to-know exceptions should be approved by your manager and Legal.
As an Apple employee, you should understand that subject to local laws and regulations and in accordance with Apple’s
review process, we may do one of the following when you access Apple’s network or systems, or use any device,
regardless of ownership, to conduct Apple business:
• Access, search, monitor, and archive all data and messages sent, accessed, viewed, or stored (including those from
iCloud, Messages, or other personal accounts).
• Conduct physical, video, or electronic surveillance, search your workspace (e.g. file cabinets, desk drawers, and offices,
even if locked), review phone records, or search any non-Apple property (e.g. backpacks, handbags) while on company
premises.
• Disclose to law enforcement, without prior notice, any information discovered during a search that may indicate unlawful
behavior
While limited personal use of Apple equipment and systems is allowed, Apple may monitor equipment and systems. You
should not have any expectation about the privacy of content or personal information on Apple systems or networks,
including VPN. To learn more, read our Information Security Policies and guidance on Personal Information Privacy on
the People site, which explain Apple’s rights and your rights when conducting Apple business or using Apple-provided
equipment. For more information, contact the Privacy team.
Human Trafficking
Apple is committed to treating everyone in our business and supply chain with dignity and respect, to upholding human
rights across our global network of suppliers, and to protecting the planet we all share. Human trafficking and the use of
involuntary labor are strictly prohibited in Apple’s supply chain and our own business operations. If you become aware of
human trafficking or behavior supporting human trafficking, you must report this activity to Business Conduct as soon as
possible. Some Apple employees who interact with the U.S. government must abide by additional requirements set for
government contractors. For more information, see the Anti-Human Trafficking Policy.
Business Conduct February 2024 19Introduction Behaviors Protecting Apple Accountability Integrity Resources
Resources
Apple Antitrust and Competition Law Policy Statement Business Conduct Helpline
(web form and telephone options)
Anti-Corruption Policy
Apple Customer Privacy Policy
Apple Global Whistleblowing Policy
Apple Human Rights Policy
Apple Supplier Code of Conduct
Apple Public Policy Advocacy Website
Intellectual Property
Investor Relations
Legal Department Contacts
Trademark and Copyright Information
Trademark List
Business Conduct February 2024 20