Code
of Conduct
2020ASML Code of Conduct
Introduction
As an industry leader, we realize that our impact extends beyond technology to people, society and the planet.
We ask all employees to commit to our Code of Conduct (Code), which is based on the ASML values of
challenge, collaborate and care. These values are part of a shared belief system within ASML that defines who
we are. They influence how we make decisions and guide us in our interactions with colleagues, customers,
suppliers, shareholders and society as a whole.
We are proud of what we have achieved as a integrity and respect. The Code also reflects corporate policies, procedures and regulations
company. ASML relies heavily on the skills, what is expected of our suppliers, contractors, and abide by them at all times. Let’s show the
commitment and behavior of its employees for consultants and other business partners. world that ASML operates with integrity and
its continued success and its contribution to respect and as a socially responsible corporate
society. That’s why we expect that all employees We all have a personal responsibility to citizen by creating a company culture guided
fully live up to the company’s values and act with incorporate the principles of the Code and by common values.
integrity and respect at all times. ASML’s values into our work. We should never
feel pressured to violate the Code. If that pressure ASML Board of Management
This Code sets out the baseline of ethical should ever arise, then we urge our employees
behavior, enabling employees to make the right not to remain silent. ASML encourages you to
decisions and live up to the ASML values. Speak Up.
It is a key resource in providing guidance for
employees, so that we can always do the right Please take the time to familiarize yourself with
thing and maintain the highest standard of ethics, the content of the Code and the underlyingASML Code of Conduct
Reader’s
guide
Who needs to follow our Code? Key principles
The Code applies to all ASML employees, officers and directors,
including:
· Board of Management
· Everyone on the payroll
· T hose working under the supervision of ASML on our sites
The Supervisory Board of ASML also agrees to adhere to this Code.
Everyone is required to live up to the expectations that we define in the
Code. Managers of all levels are expected to lead by example, drive
personal and group adherence to our Code, and make sure their direct
reports receive appropriate ethical guidance and support.
ASML’s suppliers follow the Code by (contractually) committing to
implement the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct.
To reinforce our commitment to the supplier network, we expect our key
suppliers and their suppliers to comply with the RBA Code of Conduct
and to develop their own strategies, policies and processes to follow it.
This requirement is included in our long-term product-related
suppliers’ contracts.ASML Code of Conduct
Reader’s
guide
How is the Code structured? Key principles
Each of the chapters describe ASML’s commitment and
principles in this Code and contain the following sections:
1 O ur commitment, including links to policies that are
publicly available and reference to relevant internal
policies for information
2 Key principles
The Code does not cover all the behaviors we expect
based on ASML’s values and principles. There are many
more detailed materials, including policies, laws and
regulations, that relate to different subject matters covered
by the Code. Employees are required to familiarize
themselves with this Code, respect the key principles,
and abide by the underlying corporate policies, procedures
and regulations, including those not listed in this Code,
at all times.ASML Code of Conduct
Reader’s
guide
How is this Code connected to industry Key principles
standards?
Since 2011, ASML has been a member of the
Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), the world’s
largest industry coalition dedicated to corporate social
responsibility in global electronics supply chains.
Our Code is in line with the RBA Code of Conduct,
which is a set of social, environmental and ethical
industry standards.ASML Code of Conduct
Reader’s
guide
Who is required to sign the Code? Key principles
All ASML employees, including the Board of Management,
are required to acknowledge they have read and
understood our Code by signing it and commit to
complying with it in their contracts. They are also expected
to participate in ethics training and report any potential
conflicts of interest or any other possible exception to or
violation of the Code. ASML offers support, advice, training
and additional guidance via policies and procedures.ASML Code of Conduct
Reader’s
guide
What might be considered a violation of the Code? Key principles
Everyone is required to live up to the expectations that
we define in the Code. A violation is not only about your
direct actions and behavior – the following are also
considered violations:
· Requesting or permitting others to violate the Code
· F ailing to promptly report a known or suspected
violation of the Code
· R etaliation against another employee or third party
for reporting a suspected violation of the Code
· F ailing to cooperate with investigations or audits
related to a suspected Code violation
· Failing to complete a required training or certification
process regarding this Code
· Failing to maintain confidentiality of any information
concerning an ethics case or ethics investigationASML Code of Conduct
Reader’s
guide
What happens if the Code is violated? Key principles
Any violation of the Code is taken seriously and could lead
to disciplinary action such as demotion, retraining or
termination of employment. Any measures taken should be
in line with applicable laws and regulations, local policies
and procedures.ASML Code of Conduct
Reader’s
guide
Who should I contact with questions, concerns or Key principles
suspected violations of the Code?
ASML encourages you to Speak Up if you believe or
suspect that the Code has been violated. Follow the
Speak Up procedure:
1 Discuss the issue with the person involved.
2 If you don’t feel comfortable discussing the issue with
the person involved, you may discuss it with your
(direct) manager or HR representative (or ASML contact
if you are a third party).
3 If you would rather talk to someone impartial outside of
your team, you can contact any of our Ethics Liaisons
or the Ethics Office.
4 If you prefer to remain anonymous, you can use
ASML’s Speak Up Service.
If you have any questions, suggestions or concerns
regarding the Code, please contact the Ethics Office.ASML Code of Conduct
Reader’s
guide
What is non-retaliation? Key principles
The Speak Up Policy ensures that those who Speak Up are
protected. ASML does not tolerate any form of retaliation
against any employee who reports or participates in an
investigation of a possible violation of our Code, policies or
the law. Living up to our values and the Code creates a
working environment where employees can Speak Up in
good faith and will not be punished for it. Please contact
the Ethics Office if you have any questions or if you fear
retaliation in a specific situation.ASML Code of Conduct
Our principlesASML Code of Conduct
We respect
people
Our commitment Key principles
ASML is committed to maintaining a safe and healthy working
environment. We respect human rights in line with international laws,
regulations and standards,1 such as the RBA Code of Conduct.
Diversity of cultures, education and talents make us a stronger, more
creative and innovative company. By working together and using these
values to guide us, we create an environment based on mutual respect
–one that leads to better results than any of us can achieve alone.
1 UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
International Labour Organization (‘ILO’) Declaration on
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, ILO Discrimination
Relevant corporate policies (Employment and Occupation) Convention, ILO Forced Labor
Convention, ILO Abolition of Forced Labor Convention, ILO
Occupational Safety and Health Convention, UN Universal
-Human Rights Policy (public) Declaration of Human Rights, UN Global Compact.
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s
-Website privacy notices (public) (‘OECD’) Guidelines for Multinational EnterprisesASML Code of Conduct
We respect
people
1 A SML employees are treated fairly and equally Key principles
without discrimination.
Mutual respect, diversity and equality are key to a
successful working environment. Cultural identities
are respected and valued, and we fully acknowledge
individual contributions. All ASML employees,
job applicants, contractors and others who are
under the supervision of ASML should be treated
fairly and equally without discrimination against race,
gender (identity or expression), religion, sexual
preference, disability, pregnancy, political affiliation,
union membership, national or social origin, age or any
other characteristics protected by law. ASML provides
equal opportunities in recruitment, hiring, training,
promotion and compensation.ASML Code of Conduct
We respect
people
2 A SML does not tolerate any form of (sexual) Key principles
harassment, physical and verbal abuse, mental
and physical intimidation, retaliation or any form
of aggression or bullying.
We ask everyone to contribute to a workplace free of
any kind of inhumane treatment, including any kind of
harassment or threats.ASML Code of Conduct
We respect
people
3 H uman rights should be respected at all times. Key principles
This includes, but is not limited to, freely chosen
employment, children’s rights, women’s rights,
minority rights and migrant workers’ rights.
ASML does not allow forced, (debt) bonded or
indentured labor, involuntary or exploitative prison labor,
slavery or trafficking of persons. All work should be
voluntary and not subject to mental or physical
oppression or duress. Child labor is not permitted in
any part of ASML’s business.2
2 The term ‘child’ refers to any person under the age of 15, under the
age of completing compulsory education, or under the minimum
age for employment in the country, whichever is greatest.ASML Code of Conduct
We respect
people
4 C ompensation and benefits are fair and Key principles
balanced.
Compensation and benefits are consistent with the
provisions of all applicable wage laws, including those
relating to minimum wage, overtime hours, and legally
mandated benefits. Excessive, consecutive short-term
contracting arrangements with the same employee
solely and intentionally to avoid providing regular
employment is not allowed.ASML Code of Conduct
We respect
people
5 W e respect the privacy rights of employees, Key principles
customers, suppliers and everyone whose
personal data we process.
Personal data is protected and managed in an ethical,
fair and lawful manner in line with ASML privacy policies
and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.ASML Code of Conduct
We operate
with integrity
Our commitment Key principles
A strong culture of integrity and compliance underpins ASML’s
business success. We define ‘integrity’ as acting with honesty,
sincerity, care and reliability. Compliance not only means complying
with laws and regulations but also adhering to our high ethical
standards. Our reputation for integrity is a valuable asset. It is essential
that we demonstrate personal and business integrity at all times.
Relevant corporate policies
-Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy (public) -Legal Escalation Policy
-Competition Law Compliance Policy (public) -Trade Compliance Policy
-Gifts & Entertainment Policy -Review and Sign-off Policy
-Conflicts of Interest Policy -Delegation of Authority Policy
-Anti-Fraud Policy -P-Card Policy
-Global Business Travel & Expense Policy -NPR Procurement Policy
-Insider Trading Rules -Media Relations PolicyASML Code of Conduct
We operate
with integrity
1 A SML is committed to preventing any improper Key principles
influencing of others or letting others
improperly influence us.
We do not tolerate bribery, corruption, or the offering
or receiving of improper gifts and entertainment.
We always avoid any form of conflicts of interest and
never make monetary contributions to political parties
on behalf of ASML.ASML Code of Conduct
We operate
with integrity
2 We do not tolerate any form of fraud. Key principles
We do not tolerate any form of fraud. This includes the
manipulation of information, documentation or records.
We acknowledge the critical importance of honest and
ethical conduct in the preparation and publication of
financial and non-financial statements to ensure they
are fair, accurate, timely and understandable and comply
with legal and regulatory requirements. We will not
make false or misleading claims or statements in any
of ASML’s financial reports, monitoring reports or other
documents submitted to government agencies and
investors or published on any media, including
advertisements. Employees should immediately report
fraud (or suspicion of fraud) to their manager and/or
to the Ethics Office in accordance with the Anti-Fraud
Policy.ASML Code of Conduct
We operate
with integrity
3 W e expect our employees to be familiar with, Key principles
and where applicable comply with, ASML’s
insider trading rules.
Employees should not trade directly or indirectly in
any shares or options of ASML while possessing
inside information.ASML Code of Conduct
We operate
with integrity
4 W e compete vigorously but always in Key principles
accordance with the standards of fair
business and fair competition.
ASML does not allow any form of conduct that is
considered illegal under applicable competition laws.ASML Code of Conduct
We operate
with integrity
5 C ommitments and obligations from ASML are Key principles
authorized at the correct management level.
All are validated against internal authorization
matrices.
Our global system of internal authorizations is detailed
in our Review and Sign-off Policy. This provides
employees with clear guidance on when and if they
can make written or verbal commitments on behalf of
the company.ASML Code of Conduct
We operate
with integrity
6 A SML is committed to complying with all Key principles
applicable export controls and sanctions laws
and regulations.
We export, re-export, transfer, service, broker, finance,
sell and purchase goods, software, technologies and
services while complying with all applicable export
controls and sanctions laws and regulations.
We classify goods, software and technologies in order
to identify controlled status and possible restrictions.
We implement the requirements and restrictions
applicable to the countries, business partners and
persons with whom we deal.ASML Code of Conduct
We operate
with integrity
7 W e do not engage in any process in which Key principles
persons or groups try to conceal the proceeds
of illegal activities, such as crime or terrorism.
We do not try to make the sources of illegal funds
appear legitimate (money laundering). Suspicious
transactions are reported to prevent money laundering.ASML Code of Conduct
We commit to
safety and social
responsibility
Our commitment Key principles
Technology reaches all parts of society. By helping to make chips more
affordable and more powerful, ASML has an important role to play – not
only by reputation and results but in relation to the environment. That is
why ASML is committed to conducting business responsibly, enabling
sustainable growth while fulfilling legal and moral obligations. We aim to
achieve our business objectives in a caring and responsible manner,
as outlined in the key principles.
Relevant corporate policies
- Sustainability Policy (public)
- Conflict Minerals Policy
- RoHS Product Compliance Policy
- WW Scrap PolicyASML Code of Conduct
We commit to
safety and social
responsibility
1 A SML puts safety first and is committed to Key principles
creating a safe place to work.
To prevent, manage, track and report physical injuries
and work-related illnesses, we have established
procedures and systems such as various channels
through which we encourage employees to report,
classify and record these cases. We investigate and
implement corrective and mitigating measures to
eliminate their cause and facilitate employees to
return to work.ASML Code of Conduct
We commit to
safety and social
responsibility
2 W e take responsibility for the social, Key principles
environmental and economic impact of our
activities, while fulfilling our moral and legal
obligations.
Sustainability is an integral part of our business.
Staying focused on what matters for our business and
our stakeholders, as well as society and the planet,
is the foundation of our sustainability strategy.ASML Code of Conduct
We commit to
safety and social
responsibility
3 A SML works with its suppliers to understand Key principles
how products are sourced and to ensure that
the principles of sustainability are upheld.
We encourage our supply chain partners to meet
requirements for sustainability set out by the
Responsible Business Alliance. We also perform other
activities, such as collecting information on the sourcing
of conflict minerals3 in products.
3 Conflict mineras are, in short, minerals mined in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo or any neighboring countries under conditions of armed
conflict and human rights abuses. The four main minerals concerned are
tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, collectively referred to as 3TG.ASML Code of Conduct
We commit to
safety and social
responsibility
4 W e contribute to the communities in which Key principles
we operate.
ASML is committed to having a positive impact on
the communities in which we operate, creating
additional social value by giving back to society.
We believe in collaborative, consultative and
partnership-based approaches to our community
involvement. The independent ASML Foundation funds
various education programs and supports charities
through collaborative and consultative partnerships
with neighboring communities.ASML Code of Conduct
We protect
our assets
Our commitment Key principles
ASML’s most valuable assets are its people and knowledge, both of
which are highly valued and protected. Our ‘assets’ also include
intellectual property (IP), which refers to intangible assets such as
technical knowhow, product data, business data, and personal data,
as well as physical assets such as products, tooling, funds and
computers for conducting ASML business. Our company expects
anyone entrusted with ASML assets to keep them safe from loss,
damage, misuse or theft.
Relevant corporate policies
- Quality Policy
- Information Security Policy
- Knowledge Protection Policy
- Handling Supplier Confidential Information Policy
- Acceptable Use of IT Systems Policy
- Acceptable Use of Smartphones and Tablets
- Data Retention PolicyASML Code of Conduct
We protect
our assets
1 A SML assets are not used for purposes that Key principles
violate the law or company policies.
Using ASML assets (such as IT hardware or ASML
electronic communication services, including email and
internet access), without the appropriate authorizations
by management could create a serious risk for ASML
and must be avoided at all times. If ASML assets are
used to generate, access, display, or disseminate any
material that violate or advocate the violation of this
Code, ASML may need to report this to the relevant
authorities. ASML reserves the right to access and
disclose electronic communication, while respecting
national and international standards regarding privacy,
if needed to protect its assets. You will be held
responsible for all actions performed through your
user account.ASML Code of Conduct
We protect
our assets
2 C onfidentiality of information is of the utmost Key principles
importance to us.
While acknowledging that ASML’s operations are highly
dependent on reliable information processing, it is also
critical we ensure the integrity and necessary
confidentiality of all our data.ASML Code of Conduct
We protect
our assets
3 ASML is committed to preventing unauthorized Key principles
disclosure of information belonging to ASML,
its customers or suppliers.
Unauthorized disclosure of information belonging
to ASML, its customers or suppliers may benefit
competitors, negatively affect ASML’s ability to apply
for IP rights (e.g. patent rights), or affect our relationship
with customers and suppliers. Any (possible)
information leakage should be reported in line with
our Information Security Policy.ASML Code of Conduct
We protect
our assets
4 Q uality is an integral part of all activities Key principles
performed within ASML.
Quality is essential for our technology leadership. It is
reinforced by a company-wide quality culture to ensure
the high performance of our products, continuous
process improvement, and dedication of suppliers and
our people.ASML Code of Conduct
We encourage you
to communicate
and Speak Up
Our commitment Key principles
ASML has a Speak Up Policy which is applicable to everyone working
for or on behalf of ASML worldwide. To fulfill our commitment to
upholding the high standards of integrity described in this Code,
communication is key. We strive for a working environment that
encourages open dialogue among employees – as well as between
employees and third parties – where they feel comfortable, respected,
and that they trust each other to do the right thing. In this environment of
trust, we uphold a clear non-retaliation policy, which means you will
never be punished when you raise a concern in good faith.
You may one day observe behavior that violates our Code. ASML values
and encourages employees who identify and Speak Up about a
potential violation. By doing so, they give their colleagues, managers,
counterparts and ASML the opportunity to deal with the issue
appropriately and proactively. This is essential if we are to maintain our
integrity and sustain our reputation, success and ability to operate – both
now and in the future.
Relevant corporate policies
-Speak Up Policy (public) -Media Relations Policy
-Ethics Complaints Investigation -Policy on Corporate Policies
Procedure -Legal Escalation ProcedureASML Code of Conduct
We encourage you
to communicate
and Speak Up
1 A SML has a Speak Up Policy which is Key principles
applicable to everyone working for or on behalf
of ASML worldwide.
Our Speak Up Policy is a whistleblowing policy that can
be used by everyone working for or on behalf of ASML
worldwide. It is also available to any person or party
with whom ASML has or has had a business
relationship (such as business partners, suppliers,
contractors, visitors, shareholders, agents, distributors,
representatives and customers). The Speak Up Policy
explains when, how and where you can raise concerns
about a suspected violation in confidence, respecting
privacy and without fear of retaliation.AASSMMLL CCooddee ooff CCoonndduucctt
WWee eennccoouurraaggee yyoouu
ttoo ccoommmmuunniiccaattee
aanndd SSppeeaakk UUpp
Our commitment and
key principles
2 Concerns can be reported anonymously via the Key principles
Speak Up Service.
The Speak Up Service is managed by an external
and independent provider. This service acts as a
confidential, secure and anonymous (if necessary and
possible in the respective jurisdiction) communication
channel between the reporter of a concern and the
Ethics Office.ASML Code of Conduct
We encourage you
to communicate
and Speak Up
3 A SML values and encourages employees Key principles
who identify and Speak Up about a potential
violation.
By Speaking Up, you give ASML the opportunity to
deal with the issue proactively. Remaining silent about
possible misconduct can worsen a situation and
decrease trust.ASML Code of Conduct
We encourage you
to communicate
and Speak Up
4 A SML does not tolerate any form of retaliation. Key principles
Those who Speak Up will be protected. Concerns are
treated confidentially (and if necessary anonymously).
ASML does not tolerate any form of retaliation or any
other form of adverse consequences against employees
for raising concerns about suspected violations in good
faith, even if ASML loses business as a result.ASML Code of Conduct
We encourage you
to communicate
and Speak Up
5 A SML will take (suspected) violations of the Key principles
Code seriously and investigate accordingly.
The Speak Up Policy describes what you can expect
from ASML when you Speak Up and what possible
steps will be taken after you raise a concern or file an
ethics complaint. Appropriate action will be taken if a
violation is confirmed.ASML Code of Conduct
How to
Speak Up
How to Speak Up
ASML encourages you to Speak Up and, where possible, discuss I want
your dilemma or concern with the person involved, your manager or to report Discuss with the person(s)
HR representative. an issue. Do you feel comfortable involved. Remember to take
speaking up yourself to What ASML’s values into account
the person(s) involved?
should and be respectful.
If you do not feel comfortable doing this, want to remain anonymous, or I do?
are just not sure who speak to, you can contact one of our Ethics
Officers or Ethics Liaisons directly. Discuss with your
Do you feel comfortable direct manager or
discussing the issue with HR representative.
Ethics Liaisons are employees who support the Ethics Office around the your direct manager or They can help you define
world. They serve as trusted representatives and act as a local first point your HR representative? the next steps.
of contact that any employee can turn to for questions and concerns
related to ethics.
Do you want to remain
Ethics Officers are part of the Ethics Office. They can answer all queries Use our independent
anonymous?
Speak Up Service.
relating to the Code as well as investigate and follow up on any issues
raised. Contact an Ethics Officer to ask a question or file your concern. An Ethics Officer will
look into the issue.
Contact an
Alternatively, you can contact our Speak Up Service, which is provided
Ethics Liaison
by an independent, outside company. This service enables you to leave or the Ethics Office.
your message via a phone call or the online portal and then receive
feedback from an ASML Ethics Officer within the system. You can
choose to do this anonymously if preferred.
seY
No
No
No
seY
seYASML Code of Conduct
Administrative
information
Issued by ASML Board of Management
Policy contact ASML Ethics Office
De Run 6501
5504 DR Veldhoven
The Netherlands
ethicsoffice@asml.com
+31 40 268 94 04
Effective date November 1, 2020
Version 2.0
Replaces ASML Code of Conduct and Business Principles dated October 2016
Review and amendment The Code is periodically reviewed and approved by the Ethics Board
on behalf of the Board of Management as revisions may be required
due to changes in law or regulations or changes in our business or
the business environment.
Related documents ASML Speak Up Policy
ASML Ethics Charter
ASML corporate policies
Note The Code is leading, but where local laws or regulations are stricter
than the Code, they prevail.