Our
Code of
Business
EthicsHow to use our
Code of Business Ethics?
Our Code of Business Ethics helps all team members understand how to behave and
act in the right way. It is a framework for support if we are unclear. It is impossible
for us to envision and prepare for every single business situation that may pose
an ethical dilemma. Accordingly, we do not claim that this document is definitive
or exhaustive. In three areas where ethical issues are particularly sensitive—fair
competition, bribery and corruption prevention, and conflict of interest—there are
specific, detailed Group policies that supplement overarching principles in our Code
of Business Ethics.
Our Code of Business Ethics does not rule out the need to exercise good judgment,
but rather helps us to do the right thing. When in doubt, you should ask yourself the
following questions:
> D oes it feel right?
> I s it in line with the Group Values, Code of Business Ethics and other company
policies?
> W ould I be comfortable explaining it to fellow team members, team managers,
clients, family or, externally, to the press?
> Is it legal?
If the answer to even one of these questions is “no”, it is probably not the right thing
to do. Open a dialogue with your team manager, your Ethics & Compliance Officer,
or your HR manager to make the appropriate decision, and to be sure we continue
“doing the right thing”. Find your Ethics & Compliance Officer on your Group and
local websites—see Appendix for links.
If you have raised a concern locally and you think that it has not been handled
properly, or in the exceptional case that it is inappropriate to raise the issue locally,
you can reach out to SpeakUp, Capgemini’s phone/web-based ethics helpline—see
Appendix for link.
>> Our Code of Business Ethics
is for all team members, of all the companies of the Group,
collectively referred to in this document as “the Group”.
“World’s Most Ethical Companies” and “Ethisphere” names and marks are registered trademarks of Ethisphere LLC.
22
CCaappggeemmiinnii.. OOuurr CCooddee ooff BBuussiinneessss EEtthhiiccssContents
3Seven Values
4
Capgemini. Our Code of Business EthicsSeven Values lie at the heart of
everything that the Group does
Since the creation of the Group in 1967, our culture and business practices have been inspired
and guided by our seven core Values. These are the guiding principles that we collectively
and individually stand for, and they are at the heart of our approach as an ethical and responsible
business.
Our Values also provide the basis for our rules of conduct and principles of action. They are part of
our Group DNA, shaping our sustainable ethical culture, and producing a mindset that encompasses
integrity and ethical behavior. Our Values are important for respecting, defending, and upholding
the Group as an ethical and responsible business, and for protecting our reputation.
HONESTY
, loyalty, integrity, uprightness, a complete refusal to use any underhanded
method to help win business or gain any kind of advantage. Neither growth, nor profit, nor
independence have any real worth unless they are won through complete honesty and probity.
And everyone in the Group knows that any lack of openness and integrity in our business dealings
will be penalized at once.
BOLDNESS
, which implies a flair for entrepreneurship, and a desire to take
considered risks and show commitment (naturally, linked to a firm determination to uphold
one’s commitments). This is the very soul of competitiveness: Firmness in making decisions or in
forcing their implementation, an acceptance periodically to challenge one’s orientations and the
status quo. Boldness also needs to be combined with a certain level of prudence and a particular
clear-sightedness, without which a bold manager is, in reality, merely dangerously reckless.
TRUST
, meaning the willingness to empower both individuals and teams; to have
decisions made as close as possible to the point where they will be put into practice.
Trust also means giving priority, within the company, to real openness toward other people
and the widest possible sharing of ideas and information.
FREEDOM
, which means independence in thought, judgment and deeds,
and entrepreneurial spirit, creativity. It also means tolerance, respect for others, for different
cultures and customs―an essential quality in a Group of over 270,000 people and 120 nationalities,
based in close to 50 countries.
FUN
means feeling good about being part of the company or one’s team, feeling proud
of what one does, feeling a sense of accomplishment in the search for better quality and greater
efficiency, feeling part of a challenging project.
MODESTY
, that is simplicity, the very opposite of affectation, pretension, pomposity,
arrogance, and boastfulness. Simplicity does not imply naivety (simple does not mean simpleton!);
it is more about being discreet, showing natural modesty, common sense, being attentive to others
and taking the trouble to be understood by them. It is about being frank in work relationships,
loosening up, having a sense of humor.
TEAM SPIRIT
, meaning solidarity, friendship, fidelity, generosity, and fairness
in sharing the benefits of collective work; accepting responsibilities and an instinctive willingness
to support common efforts when the storm is raging.
55The Board of Directors
The Board of Directors
of Capgemini SE
The undersigned, members of the Board
of Directors of Capgemini SE, express by
their signature their endorsement and their
individual and collective support of the
provisions of the Code of Business Ethics.
66
CCaappggeemmiinnii.. OOuurr CCooddee ooff BBuussiinneessss EEtthhiiccssPaul Hermelin Aiman Ezzat Xiaoqun Clever Maria Ferraro
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Pierre Goulaieff Siân Herbert-Jones Hervé Jeannin Belen Moscoso
del Prado Lopez-Doriga
Xavier Musca Frédéric Oudéa Patrick Pouyanné Olivier Roussat
Tanja Rueckert Kurt Sievers Lucia Sinapi
7Message from the Chairman
Message from
the Chairman
When, in 1967, a small French startup
ventured into a then emerging
market, it set out with no guarantee
of success, but it moved forward
nevertheless with conviction—with
an unshakeable belief—that it had
a part to play in shaping the future.
That small startup is today
the Capgemini group—our Group.
By closely partnering with our clients as they step new worlds of opportunity. The ethical challenges,
into the future, and by constantly pushing to bring however, remain. Our Code of Business Ethics is as
out the best in our people, we have made a truly valuable an asset today as it ever was, in that it provides
remarkable contribution to the global technological the compass that will enable us to navigate our way
transformation. We have become a forerunner in an forward through these new worlds.
industry that has transformed the way we live, work,
and play. With our adventurous spirit and high requirements
with regard to ethics and performance, I have no doubt
Throughout this incredible journey, we have remained that we will continue to work at the forefront of our
true to principles that have governed us from the start: industry, accompanying the most demanding clients
an entrepreneurial spirit, a passion for clients, belief on the most demanding missions, and showing the
in our people, and extremely high expectations with way as exemplary corporate citizens—a true Leader
regard to both performance and ethical behavior. for Leaders.
From the outset, we have been distinguished by our As Chairman, I will make a point of honor of supporting
faith in a certain way of doing business, inspired the our Group, and our Group CEO, by further strengthening
seven core Values conceived by our founder Serge governance. I will also invest in the activities through
Kampf. Our team is located worldwide, but we share a which Capgemini expresses its ethical credentials
common culture based on honesty, trust, and respect and demonstrates its ambition to make a positive
for each other’s backgrounds and contributions to our contribution to our world, acting on diversity, energy
joint enterprise. Being a values-based organization transition, and digital inclusion.
has guided our behavior throughout the many
evolutions our Group has seen, whilst allowing us Above all, I will continue to “do my bit”, by strictly
the freedom needed to adapt to our fast-evolving following the principles set out in this Code, acting
marketplace—and the boldness we need to lead. always in alignment with our shared values, and by
demonstrating exemplary behavior.
With the digital age still dawning, it’s clear that our
adventure is only just beginning. The exponential
rise of information and communication technology Paul HERMELIN
means that the horizon is unfolding every day, every Chairman
hour, all around the world. This spectacular digital
transformation opens up to our clients and our Group
8
Capgemini. Our Code of Business EthicsMessage from the Group CEO
Message from
the Group CEO
In an industry characterized by
shakeups and innovation, our Group
has been leading the way forward
for over fifty years—a demonstration
of real agility and stability. While
the spirit of enterprise drives us,
our founding ethos gives us strength,
powering us from success to success.
Today, we are a global team of 270,000 entrepreneurs, that our Group provides a diverse, inclusive, and
which I am very proud to lead. We seek out the respectful work environment where everyone feels
opportunities presented by new technologies and safe and is heard. You will also uphold our business
enlighten our clients, by providing top expertise and interests by protecting our assets and those of third
absolute commitment to help them transform into parties, acting responsibly in the marketplace, and
the businesses of tomorrow. Thanks to the passion fostering values-based, long-standing business
and collective energy of our people, and the astute relationships. In addition to being passionate about
and energetic leadership of my predecessors Serge adding value to our clients, we want to make a better
Kampf and Paul Hermelin, we are equipped with key environment for all stakeholders—be attentive to the
strengths: an agile client-centric operating model, ethical use of technologies and the digital inclusion
a diversified geographic and sectorial footprint, of the greatest number of people, and keep the fight
a robust financial management, and the very solid against climate change an absolute priority. Our Code
fundamentals provided by our seven Values. empowers you to advance our ambition to be model
corporate citizens, supporting and respecting the
These Values have proved to be a precious asset communities and environment in which we operate.
through good times and bad, providing the freedom
we need to be agile, while inspiring and guiding the As your CEO, I assume responsibility for keeping
way we operate, work, and collaborate. As our world ethics as the keystone of our business and commit to
becomes increasingly connected, remaining true to our setting an example through my actions. In sponsoring
Values is essential; none of us can be oblivious to our our Code of Business Ethics, I also aim to support
impact. As leaders, we also bear the extra responsibility you in adopting ethical behavior with regard to all
that comes with stature; we must show the way—be stakeholders, be they clients, team members, partners
role models in every respect. and suppliers, or shareholders.
Our Code of Business Ethics is based on our Values. I count on your full and enthusiastic engagement to
It is designed to help our team members “do their help ensure that Capgemini’s growth is sustainable
bit” to maintain our standards of behavior and our well into the future. Make sure that you know the
reputation as an ethical company. It is the duty of content of our Code and, above all, put its rules and
each of us to act with total integrity. One misguided principles into action.
action can lead to the loss of a reputation built up
over decades. We owe it to our clients and Group to Only in this way—by being role models—can we truly
remember at all times and in all situations, who we are, fulfill our responsibility as leaders.
and how we work.
By acting in line with the principles of our Code you AIMAN EZZAT
will make a positive difference, helping to ensure Group CEO
9Group Executive Board Members
Commitment from our
Group Executive Board
Aiman Ezzat, Fernando Alvarez, Jim Bailey, Jean-Philippe Bol,
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER STRATEGY, DEVELOPMENT AMERICAS OPERATIONS TRANSFORMATION
AND ALLIANCES & INDUSTRIALIZATION
Anirban Bose, Andrea Falleni, Carole Ferrand, Cyril Garcia,
FINANCIAL SERVICES, APAC SOUTHERN EUROPE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY SERVICES,
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Franck Greverie, Anne Lebel, William Rozé, Michael Schulte,
PORTFOLIO, CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE CHIEF HUMAN RESOURCES OFFICER ENGINEERING NORTHERN EUROPE
SERVICES, BUSINESS SERVICES, INSIGHTS &
DATA AND DIGITAL CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE
Olivier Sevillia, Jérôme Simeon,
CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER GLOBAL INDUSTRIES, ETHICS
10
Capgemini. Our Code of Business Ethics1. Our Code of
Business Ethics
Since the Group was founded, we have
always believed that a profitable and
sustainable business cannot exist without
sound ethics and integrity. This lies at the
very heart of our decentralized organization.
Our Code of Business Ethics is our ongoing
commitment to maintaining and promoting
world-class standards of business integrity
and trust wherever we operate.
11Section 1: Our Code of Business Ethics
1.1 What is our 1.2 Who is it
Code of Business for and what
Ethics? are our roles?
Our Code of Business Ethics encapsulates our respect for the Our Code of Business Ethics is for all team members, of all
law and for individuals, and our responsibilities to our clients companies of the Group.
and stakeholders. It provides the basis for our ethical culture.
It applies to all of us, both team managers and team members,
We respect international, national and local laws and at every level of the Group. If you are in a leadership position
regulations in the countries in which we work, and we undertake or in a team manager role, you need to understand that these
all necessary commitments to adhere to them. Our Blue Book positions imply additional responsibilities to uphold our ethical
sets out common internal guidelines, procedures, and policies behavior.
that govern our operation as a Group and provides further
in-depth guidance. The Blue Book is available on our Group It is Group policy that no one will be retaliated against for
and local websites—see Appendix for links. raising any concerns in good faith regarding practices that may
violate this Code of Business Ethics.
The Group has always been a values-based organization:
our Values are a part of our Group DNA and lead all of us
to adopt an ethical mindset and ethical behavior in our daily AS A TEAM MEMBER
business activities. MY ROLE IS TO:
Our Code of Business Ethics sets out, explains and formalizes > K now and understand our Code of Business Ethics;
the Values, rules of conduct and behavior, and the principles > A ct consistently with our Code of Business Ethics, and if
of action that we expect from ourselves and that are required in doubt seek guidance from my team manager, human
of us in our relationships with stakeholders. Our Code of resources manager, a lawyer in the legal department, or my
Business Ethics is embedded in the Blue Book. It prevails over country’s Ethics & Compliance Officer; and
any business-level policy or procedure.
> D emonstrate and live our Values, rules of conduct and
behavior, and principles of action.
In the following sections of this Code of Business Ethics, we
aim to provide clarity and guidance, especially in fields that can
pose ethical dilemmas. In such areas, exercising good judgment AS A TEAM MANAGER I HAVE
can be complex because you are in a gray area and there is
ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES
a risk of breaking the law, sometimes even unknowingly.
In these situations, any misconduct could compromise our AND MY ROLE IS TO:
ethical culture, damage the Group’s reputation and potentially
> L ead by example and maintain, promote, and live our Code
lead to significant sanctions. In three areas where ethical
of Business Ethics in my daily work;
issues are particularly sensitive—fair competition, bribery
> E nsure that our Code of Business Ethics is alive within my
and corruption prevention, and conflict of interest—there
team;
are specific detailed Group policies that supplement the
high-level overviews in our Code of Business Ethics. > E nsure that I am familiar with the Code of Business Ethics,
since my team members may come to me for advice and
We must follow our Code of Business Ethics no matter guidance on certain issues in our Code of Business Ethics;
where we operate and whatever the economic circumstances. and
Following the Code of Business Ethics is mandatory for > I dentify compliance risks and make the appropriate decisions
Group compliance. regarding issues relevant to my area of responsibility.
12
Capgemini. Our Code of Business Ethics1.3 SpeakUp
SpeakUp is a web and phone-based ethics concerns
reporting and incident management tool, operated by
an independent service provider, and made available
by Capgemini to team members, customers, suppliers,
and business partners. SpeakUp complies with legal
requirements in jurisdictions that have whistleblowing
regulations. By upholding our people’s freedom to raise
concerns and empowering us to put ethics into action,
SpeakUp also contributes to safeguarding Capgemini’s
culture of openness and our high ethical standards.
SpeakUp is voluntary, confidential, and allows anonymity,
unless stated differently by a country’s local law. It
ensures fairness, organizational justice, and prompt,
systematic investigation. Capgemini trusts and expects
team members to use SpeakUp in good faith, and firmly
prohibits retaliation against whomever raises or helps
address a legitimate concern.
Use SpeakUp to report concerns and request advice or
guidance about actions or behaviors that are:
— Not aligned with our Values, our Code of Business Ethics,
or related ethics and compliance policies, or
— Not in compliance with applicable laws, or
— That may significantly affect vital interests of Capgemini
and its affiliates.
SpeakUp is not a grievance helpline; it is not a platform
to raise issues in relation to performance review,
compensation, and career development. However,
actions and behaviors that are not aligned to our Values
and Code of Business Ethics, e.g. workplace harassment,
discrimination, retaliation, and sexual harassment, are
within the scope of SpeakUp.
Please read the SpeakUp policy for more information;
country-specific regulations are identified under the policy.
www.capgemini.com/speakup
13Section 2: People
14
Capgemini. Our Code of Business Ethics2. People
We are committed to
providing a safe and
inclusive work environment.
15Section 2: People
2.1 Health and safety
We are committed to looking after the health and safety of
team members, whether working on our own sites or on our
clients’ sites.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
> Follow the rules. The Group takes its health and safety responsibility very seriously and
we are all expected to comply with, and adhere to, any relevant legislation and emergency
procedures. When working on a client’s site, we are also expected to observe and
cooperate with any client rules regarding health and safety and emergency procedures.
When traveling on business, we are expected to comply with and follow applicable Group
policies—see Appendix for the link.
> Be supportive. We expect our team managers to look after the health and safety of their
team members.
> Be pro-active. We all have the responsibility to identify and report to our local health and
safety representative or team manager any form of behavior that could present a hazard or
risk, or any situation that may compromise the health and safety of our team members.
WHAT IS EXPECTED OF ME?
> I t is my duty to familiarize myself with and follow the Group’s health and safety policies,
my clients’ health and safety policies, and any emergency procedures that are provided to
me in accordance with applicable laws.
> I must follow Group Mobility guidelines and Group Travel and Security policies when traveling.
PRACTICAL EXAMPLES
I am working on a client site and have meetings in I am working on a project and my partner has
the production environment. What are my responsibilities problems that require my presence at home,
with regard to health and safety? which may have an impact on the way I work
It is your responsibility to familiarize yourself with the client’s health and where I can work. What should I do?
and safety policies, for example by requesting that your team Raise the concern with your team manager so
manager obtains a copy of their health and safety handbook/policy. that you can discuss appropriate ways to help
If you are working in an industrial environment, make sure you you continue to do your work. If you are the
do not miss any health and safety courses that the client offers. team manager, then you should take your team
If there is a real concern for the health and safety of you or members’ personal circumstances into account
your team, raise the issue immediately with your team manager as far as possible. If you are unsure what to do,
who must raise it with the client, if necessary. If you are the team speak with your human resources manager.
manager, checking the client’s health and safety policies should be
one of your first priorities at the start of a project.
DISCUSS OPENLY AND SHARE YOUR CONCERNS: If you are facing an issue involving health and safety, do not
keep it to yourself. You will get help and support by discussing it with your team manager or your human resources
manager.
16
Capgemini. Our Code of Business Ethics2.2 Equality, diversity,
and inclusion
Diversity is an essential characteristic of our Group, which is profoundly
multicultural; it favors creativity and innovation and helps establish an
inclusive culture of mutual benefit. As individuals, we are all entitled to
equal opportunities and fair treatment.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
> E mployee engagement. Employee engagement is better integration of employees with disabilities into
our main performance lever and a key factor to attract our workforce, are handled locally, with best practices
and retain our talents. To ensure that our employees shared across the Group.
are interested in their work and motivated, we must
> Equal opportunity and fair treatment. We aim to provide
continuously engage with them to measure their level of
equal opportunities and fair treatment, irrespective of
interest, satisfaction, and wellbeing at work.
social, cultural, ethnic or national origins, religious or other
The performance management system is a continuous
beliefs, caste, gender identity/expression, marital status,
process based on a regular cycle of interviews. It is based
pregnancy status, sexual orientation, disability, age, skin
on adjusted objectives and helps optimize employees’
color, race, parental status, political ideology, military/
strengths by focusing on the value they create as well as
veteran status or trade union activity. We are committed
their contribution to the business.
to complying with all employment discrimination laws.
Capgemini has a policy of continuous professional
developm ent for its employees, developing their skills and
ensuring their employability in order to meet demanding WHAT IS EXPECTED OF ME?
market requirements.
> I assess fellow team members on the basis of professional
> F reedom. In the spirit of our core Value “Freedom”,
competence, behavior, and achievements.
tolerance and respect for other cultures and customs
are essential. We believe that the factors that make > I am expected not to tolerate any jokes, language,
people different are a source of innovation and gestures or other behavior that may offend people,
creativity. Diversity is also a business imperative for make them feel discriminated against, or create a hostile
us to access the skills we need in order to deliver to environment.
our clients. By bringing in a range of talent, we gain > I cooperate with my colleagues irrespective of social,
different perspectives, which is essential in the rapidly cultural, ethnic or national origins, religious or other
changing world in which we operate. While diversity beliefs, caste, gender identity/expression, marital status,
goes beyond gender, we tackle gender diversity as a pregnancy status, sexual orientation, disability, age, skin
key issue, given the scale of the challenge. Other types color, race, parental status, political ideology, military/
of diversity, such as ethnicity, religion, LGBTQIA+ and veteran status, or trade-union activity.
PRACTICAL EXAMPLES
I want to make sure I have a diverse team. In my I am a team manager and one of my team members
recruitment activities, should I favor people from has expressed his/her disabilities to me. Does
minority groups over other candidates? the Group have facilities to ensure this person can
We should always assess candidates equally, based on continue to do the job required of them?
merit and professional competence. In our recruitment Yes. The Group has tools, technology, and processes
activities, we should request any recruitment firm to assist people with disabilities and ensure they can
to present a diverse set of candidates, reflecting the continue to do their job. Please contact your local human
society in which we live. resources department for more information on what
is available.
DISCUSS OPENLY AND SHARE YOUR CONCERNS: If you are facing an issue related to equality, diversity and
inclusion, do not keep it to yourself. You will get help and support by discussing it with your team manager or your
human resources manager.
17Section 2: People
2.3 Harassment
We all have a right to be treated with respect and courtesy,
and a duty to treat others this way.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
> Respect in the workplace. The Group is expected to maintain a work environment that is
free of harassment; this includes intimidation, unwelcome sexual advances, threats and acts
of violence.
> Zero tolerance. We do not tolerate any form of harassment or violence or any action that
creates a threatening workplace; this includes any attitude, form of behavior or situation that
may be specified as harassment. Any breach of the rules may result in disciplinary sanctions.
WHAT IS EXPECTED OF ME?
> I do not make remarks or jokes, or display material that may offend with respect to social,
cultural, ethnic or national origins, religious or other beliefs, caste, gender identity/expression,
marital status, pregnancy status, sexual orientation, disability, age, skin color, race, parental
status, political ideology, military/veteran status, or trade-union activity, as this could be
considered harassment.
> I respect others, and I do not accept any form of harassment or violence in the workplace.
> I must not tolerate or engage in any form of retaliation, revenge, or victimization regarding
an individual who has claimed to be harassed.
PRACTICAL EXAMPLES
My team manager can be quite demanding and One of my fellow team members always stands
intimidating. He/she often makes unreasonable very closely behind me and touches my back
requests, argues and makes fun of me in front of my and shoulders while I am working at my desk.
fellow team members. Is this a form of harassment? It makes me feel very uncomfortable.
If your team manager is intimidating or treats you with Is this a form of harassment?
disrespect this could be classified as harassment. This could be a form of harassment. If you can, ask
If you feel that you or any of your fellow team your fellow team member to refrain from touching you.
members are not treated professionally you can raise If you feel that the matter has not been addressed
the issue directly with your team manager. If you feel properly, you can raise the issue with your team manager.
uncomfortable with this approach, discuss the matter If you feel uncomfortable with this approach, discuss
with your human resources manager instead. the matter with your human resources manager instead.
DISCUSS OPENLY AND SHARE YOUR CONCERNS: If you are facing an issue involving harassment, do not keep it
to yourself. You will get help and support by discussing it with your team manager or your human resources manager.
18
Capgemini. Our Code of Business Ethics2.4 Open dialogue
We believe that effective communication is a prerequisite
for an open and inclusive culture.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
> Open dialogue. Our Values of “Team spirit” and “Trust” encourage us to work together
and to recognize the importance of open dialogue. We strongly encourage open dialogue
through team meetings, conference calls, forums and employee surveys, in which we can
express our opinions freely.
> Open and constructive employee relations.
— W e facilitate open dialogue through our International Works Council (IWC), the official
representative body of the Group, enabling dialogue between Group management and
people representatives across the Group.
— A t the local level, we support open dialogue with people representatives or other
relevant employee representative bodies, and follow the processes provided for under
local legislation, regulations and agreements.
— W e uphold freedom of association.
WHAT IS EXPECTED OF ME?
> I make sure that we have an open and inclusive culture and that I engage positively in open
dialogue, focusing on successful outcomes.
> W hether as a team member or a team manager, it is important that I understand and live
the Values of the Group, this will enable me to encourage and support an environment of
open dialogue.
PRACTICAL EXAMPLES
I am a new team manager. What is expected of me to I’ve filled in the employee survey and have not
make sure I maintain an open dialogue with my team had any feedback or results. Should I have received
members? something?
As a team manager, you should set up regular team Yes. We encourage open dialogue and we use our
meetings or conference calls that enable dialogue and employee survey to give you the ability to freely express
address the concerns of your team. your views. It is the role of the team manager to make
sure that the results are discussed and fed back to you.
If you are a team manager, it is your responsibility to
make sure that you implement the action plans resulting
from the survey, for your area of responsibility.
DISCUSS OPENLY AND SHARE YOUR CONCERNS: If you are facing an issue regarding open dialogue, do not keep
it to yourself. You will get help and support by discussing it with your team manager or your human resources manager.
19Section 2: People
2.5 Behavior at work
and work-related events
As representatives of the Group, our behavior at work and
work-related events can have an effect on the Group and
our own professional reputation. We are expected to
follow socially acceptable rules of behavior at work and on
social media.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
> Professionalism. We are expected to respect personal and cultural differences, to ensure
that everyone enjoys a comfortable atmosphere at work and work-related events. We need
to make sure there is no sense of exclusion, discrimination, or harassment.
— At any work-related event, we are all responsible for ensuring our behavior is
professional, reasonable and appropriate, and that it does not damage the Group’s
reputation or our own professional reputation.
— Do not engage in any conduct, even online, that would not be acceptable in your
workplace or that is unlawful. We have provided detailed guidance on social media
usage—see Appendix for the link.
WHAT IS EXPECTED OF ME?
> I am sensitive to personal beliefs and cultural differences and I do not impose my personal
opinions on others at work and work-related events.
> A t work and work-related events, I must not let alcohol affect my behavior and judgment.
I must not engage in the unlawful use or possession of drugs and I must respect the relevant
smoking policies.
> I f I am at a business event, I must remember that I represent the Group, so I need to be aware
of how my behavior will be perceived by others.
> M y behavior should be consistent both offline and online.
PRACTICAL EXAMPLES During a work-related event, the discussion turned to politics.
My colleague took an aggressive approach to push his/her political
I attended a social event organized by my opinion. Is this appropriate?
department and was uncomfortable with the The Group respects personal opinions. However, these should not be used
amount of alcohol consumed. Is this behavior to convince or manipulate fellow team members.
appropriate? Topics involving politics, religion, and sexuality can be highly sensitive,
When we are at a social event organized by the and you should consider refraining from addressing topics that may be
Group, we are expected to behave appropriately. deemed personal, objectionable, or even offensive.
Consumption of alcohol during work-related
events should not affect our behavior or I came across the posts of two of my colleagues, who follow each
judgment. This also applies to Group training other on social media. Recently, one of them has been posting
sessions at internal and external locations. racist comments and articles on the other’s social media page,
In addition, as team members of a multicultural clearly making him uncomfortable. Is this behavior appropriate?
Group, we must show respect and consideration You are personally responsible for your words and actions, no matter where
for different cultures. In many countries where you are, even online. Do not engage in any conduct online that would not be
the Group operates, and for many of our people, acceptable in your workplace or that is unlawful. For example, do not make
alcohol is restricted or even prohibited. derogatory remarks, bully, intimidate, harass other users, use insults, or post
content that is hateful, slanderous, threatening, discriminating, or pornographic.
DISCUSS OPENLY AND SHARE YOUR CONCERNS: If you are facing an issue involving behavior at work and work-
related events, do not keep it to yourself. You will get help and support by discussing it with your team manager or your
human resources manager.
20
Capgemini. Our Code of Business Ethics3. Business
integrity
As a business we are
committed to act responsibly
in the marketplace.
21Section 3: Business Integrity
3.1 Fair competition
The Group competes vigorously but fairly for its clients’
business. The majority of the countries in which we operate
have competition or antitrust laws, and trade regulations
designed to protect such competition. The Group is commit-
ted to comply with all applicable competition and antitrust
laws, and regulations.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
> T he basic rule. While the specific competition laws of each country (also called “antitrust
laws” in certain countries) vary, there are a number of common themes:
— P rohibited agreements and practices. Agreements (written or simply understood) to
fix prices, allocate clients or markets, coordinate bids, undertake boycotts, or exclude
competitors are generally not permitted. Practices among companies that have the same
effect or object as such agreements are also prohibited.
— U nlawful dominance. Large market players in certain markets have less flexibility in
making specific business decisions, including refusing to deal with other companies and
making acquisitions.
> P rohibited conduct. We do not discuss, provide to, or exchange with a competitor: prices,
terms of sale, division of markets (whether by geography, product, or otherwise), allocation
of customers, costs, profits or profit margins, or other activity that may restrain competition.
> Understand the consequences. Even being accused of violating these laws can have serious
consequences both for the Group and its team members. The Group could be forced to pay
significant criminal and civil fines or settlements, and individual employees may face large
fines, years of imprisonment and disciplinary actions.
> C onsult the experts. The legal department is there to help you understand and comply
with complex competition and antitrust laws. Ask questions if you have concerns about the
Group’s behavior or our business partners’ and suppliers’ behavior.
The Group has provided detailed guidance on compliance with competition laws in the Group
Competition Laws Policy, available on your Group and local websites—see Appendix for the link.
WHAT IS EXPECTED OF ME?
> I t is my responsibility to read and understand the Group Competition Laws Policy so that I do
not enter into any improper practices.
> I t is my responsibility to seek help from the legal department if and when there is any question
or doubt as to how the Group Competition Laws Policy is applied in a given situation.
> I must be careful about how I interact with the Group’s competitors at conferences, events and
industry associations and social functions, and be mindful of the appearance of impropriety.
> I should not use unlawful or unethical means to obtain competitors’ information.
> I should be aware that any verbal or written exchange with competitors may be damaging
to the Group.
> I must respect my own and other people’s prior employment obligations and should not force
anyone to violate any of their obligations towards previous employers.
DISCUSS WITH A LAWYER IN THE LEGAL DEPARTMENT: If you are facing an issue involving fair competition, do not
keep it to yourself. You should discuss the issue directly with a lawyer in the legal department.
22
Capgemini. Our Code of Business EthicsPRACTICAL EXAMPLES
At an industry event, one of my counterparts, a competitor,
tells me that his or her group is planning to increase
its fees by 17% across the company in the coming year,
and asks what our plans are. What should I do?
Competitors should not share information about their future
pricing plans. You should immediately tell your counterpart
that his or her comment and question are inappropriate and
make a memorable exit from the room.
Call your legal department to tell them what happened and
how you responded.
Failure to take either of these steps can lead to years of
investigations, litigation, and, potentially, prison time.
I have worked with a number of different clients in one
specific industry. What should I do if they ask me about
their competitors’ practices?
You should tell the client that protecting our clients’ privacy
is very important to us. The client should appreciate that, just
as we will not tell their competitors what they are doing, we will
not tell them about the competitors.
In addition to being the ethical response to such a question,
this also protects the Group from being seen as aiding industry
participants in coordinating their conduct through the exchange
of competitive sensitive information in violation of competition
and antitrust laws.
I am responding to a tender from a client when one of my
counterparts, a competitor, calls me to discuss the bidding
process and tells me that his or her company will only bid
for a portion of the project. He or she is wondering whether
we would be bidding for the same portion or whether
we might not be more interested in the client’s business
in other parts of the world. What should I do?
In many countries sharing information on tenders and how
competitors will bid is a criminal offense. You should immediately
tell your counterpart that his or her inquiry is inappropriate and
terminate the telephone call.
Call your legal department to tell them what happened and
how you responded.
Failure to take either of these steps can lead to years of
investigations, litigation, and, potentially, prison time.
Remember that even an oral contact by telephone can be
proved by telephone logs, so do not underestimate the
potential damage of such contacts.
23Section 3: Business Integrity
3.2 Bribery and corruption
Our ability to win business depends solely on the value we
bring to our clients. The Group is committed to preventing
any violation of anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws in
every jurisdiction in which it operates.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
> C omply. Bribery, including influence peddling, is an offense carrying criminal and civil
penalties in most jurisdictions where we operate.
— Anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws prohibit offering, promising, or paying anything
of value to obtain an undue advantage from a government official or any private
individual, such as to act, or refrain from acting, in a manner that is favorable to the
Group or to any of its clients.
— T he definition of “government official” in anti-corruption laws is broad, and it includes,
among other persons, employees of companies that are partially owned by a government
agency, as well as employees of political parties and candidates of political office.
— F urther, it is prohibited to request or authorize any third party to make any such offers,
promises, or payments.
— I t is also prohibited to receive anything of value from any individual that is, or may be
perceived to be, given to influence the Group or any of its clients.
> Commissions. In the course of our sales activities, we do not tolerate any payment of
commission to third parties nor do we accept any commission from third parties unless
specifically authorized by the Group. When authorized by the Group, we may receive referral
fees from third-party vendors such as third-party software or hardware companies. However,
these referral fees should always be made transparent to the client.
> Understand the consequences. Failure to comply with anti-corruption and anti-bribery
laws not only exposes the Group to civil and criminal penalties, but could subject any team
member to civil penalties, criminal punishment—including possible imprisonment—and
disciplinary action.
> Zero tolerance. The Group has zero tolerance for any form of bribery and corruption or any
acts that may be perceived to be bribery or corruption. Toleration of bribery or corruption
is unacceptable business conduct wherever the Group operates.
We have provided specific guidance on this topic in the Group Anti-Corruption Policy—
see Appendix for the link.
WHAT IS EXPECTED OF ME?
> I t is my responsibility to know, understand, and comply with the Group Anti-Corruption Policy
and to complete the mandatory training on the topic.
> I t is my responsibility to know, understand, and comply with the anti-corruption and anti-
bribery laws in the jurisdictions where I work.
> I t is my responsibility to seek help from the legal department if and when there is any
question or doubt as to how to comply with the Group Anti-Corruption Policy.
DISCUSS WITH A LAWYER IN THE LEGAL DEPARTMENT: If you are facing an issue involving bribery and corruption,
do not keep it to yourself. You should discuss the issue directly with a lawyer in the legal department.
24
Capgemini. Our Code of Business EthicsPRACTICAL EXAMPLES
I am about to give a small gift to our client.
What steps should I follow before doing so?
Before giving any Group client a gift, you should assess
whether that gift is permitted by applicable laws, the
Group Anti-Corruption Policy, and the known internal
rules of the recipient’s employer. Gifts must only occur
in connection with a legitimate business, not be made
to gain an undue advantage or unduly influence an action,
and must have a reasonable value and be infrequently
given to the same recipient. If intended for public
officials, any entertainment, gift, or travel must be cleared
in advance by your legal department. You must abide
by any advice given to you. You will find additional practical
examples in the Group Anti-Corruption Policy.
25Section 3: Business Integrity
3.3 Conflict of interest
We must be careful not to take actions that may conflict
with the Group’s interests or could lead to damaging
its reputation.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
> Loyalty and good faith. As an employee of the Group, we are bound by a duty of loyalty
and the obligation to act in good faith.
> Conflict of interest. A potential conflict of interest arises when we have several
contradictory interests at the same time. When a personal interest is in contradiction
to the Group’s interests, we risk violating our duty of loyalty. This occurs any time the
potential for direct or indirect personal gain can or does influence a decision connected
to our business. Consequently, we must avoid situations where our personal interests
could conflict with the Group’s interests.
We have provided detailed guidance on conflict of interest in the Group Conflict of
Interest Policy—see Appendix for the link.
WHAT IS EXPECTED OF ME?
> I must not engage in outside activities that compete with the Group or assist a Group
competitor.
> I must report any potential conflict of interest to my team manager or Ethics & Compliance
Officer.
> I must award business solely based on merit and not because of personal relationships
or potential personal gain.
> I must not use or disclose any business information or opportunities obtained through my
work for personal advantage or personal gain.
> I f I am unsure whether my interest puts me in a potential situation of conflict of interest,
I should discuss the matter with my team manager.
PRACTICAL EXAMPLES
My partner works for a competitor. What should I be aware of? One of my close family relations works at
You should be aware that this is an extremely sensitive situation a leading recruitment agency that we often
and should be disclosed in writing to your manager. If you and use. Is this a potential conflict of interest?
your partner discuss any business information whatsoever you risk It depends on several factors such as the
violating the competition laws in your country. Both you and your individual handling the agency in question,
partner could be committing a criminal act if you discuss pricing or what your role is, or what your close relation’s
business opportunities. role is. Because this situation presents a potential
You should know what these laws are and, if you have any doubt conflict of interest, you should be transparent
whatsoever about them, consult your Country’s Ethics & Compliance about the issue and notify your team manager.
Officer. Appropriate measures should be taken, such as
In addition, discussing business information with your partner may ensuring you are not involved on the account,
violate confidentiality obligations. to avoid any appearance of a conflict of interest.
DISCUSS OPENLY AND SHARE YOUR CONCERNS: If you are facing an issue involving a conflict of interest, do not keep
it to yourself. You will get help and support by discussing it with your team manager or your Ethics & Compliance Officer.
26
Capgemini. Our Code of Business Ethics3.4 Insider trading
We have to exercise the utmost caution when considering
transactions that involve the shares of the Group, of our
clients, business partners, or suppliers. Disseminating insider
information or making any transaction based on insider
information is prohibited.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
> Zero tolerance. Insider information is any non-public information that, if known, would
reasonably be expected to be used by an investor in deciding whether to buy, sell, or hold
such security.
— The Group strictly prohibits the trading of Capgemini SE shares or any other Group-
related securities during the “closed periods”—see Appendix for the link. Independently
of closed periods, we should not buy or sell Group shares and/or other related securities
when aware of any insider information. Similar restrictions apply to trading any publicly
listed shares or other related securities of the Group’s current or potential clients,
business partners, or suppliers when in possession of insider information.
— Disseminating insider information or using insider information can lead to criminal
sanctions.
WHAT IS EXPECTED OF ME?
> I am prohibited from disseminating insider information.
> I am not allowed to make investment decisions based on confidential or insider information.
> W hen assigned to a project that involves a merger, acquisition, or joint venture, I am expected
to disclose shares and other related securities that I hold in this other company, other than
those held through mutual funds or similar vehicles where I have no discretion.
> I am not allowed to buy or sell Capgemini SE shares or any other Group-related securities
during closed periods.
PRACTICAL EXAMPLES
Can I trade in Capgemini SE shares at any time I am working on a client system that gives me access
of the year? to client information. If I buy or sell these client
No. The Group has strict policies on this issue and shares, could this be considered insider trading?
has defined closed periods in which buying and selling Yes, especially if you have access to sensitive client
Capgemini SE shares, or any other Group-related information. In addition, we may have to respect our
securities, is prohibited. The Group notifies all team clients’ closed periods in the same way that we do
members of the closed periods. for our Group.
DISCUSS WITH A LAWYER IN THE LEGAL DEPARTMENT: If you are facing an issue involving insider trading, do not
keep it to yourself. You should discuss the issue directly with a lawyer in the legal department.
27Section 3: Business Integrity
3.5 Accurate and correct business
and financial information
We are responsible for ensuring that we maintain and release
accurate and correct business and financial information, in a
transparent and timely manner.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
> Commitment to accuracy. The Group is committed to communicate accurate and relevant
information to its shareholders on a regular basis.
> Group effort. We all create information relating to the Group, its clients, team members,
business partners, or suppliers. We must ensure that we produce accurate and correct
business information and manage documents with the utmost care and to the best of our
knowledge.
> Zero tolerance. We must know and comply with all relevant laws, regulations, and internal
rules concerning business information and, most importantly, financial business information.
Any infringement of laws and regulations can potentially result in fines and criminal charges.
WHAT IS EXPECTED OF ME?
> I must ensure I know and comply with all relevant legal, contractual, and internal requirements
concerning the documentation and maintenance of business records relevant to my sphere
of influence.
> I must not produce any documentation that may mislead or deceive the recipient.
> I must obtain the relevant approval when responding to internal or external financial inquiries.
> I must securely store confidential business records, including back-ups.
PRACTICAL EXAMPLES
I have been contacted by an external party to provide financial I have to do several appraisals for
performance information on one of our strategic business units. members of my team. Is there anything
Am I allowed to provide them with the information? I should be careful about in terms
No. The communication of financial information comes directly under of storing this information?
the responsibility of the Group CFO through either Group financial Yes. As with any other documented
control or the investor relations departments. You should not disclose information, all appraisal information needs
any financial performance information concerning the Group without to be accurate and stored centrally within
prior authorization. the appropriate local record management
system.
DISCUSS WITH A LAWYER IN THE LEGAL DEPARTMENT: If you are facing an issue involving accurate and correct
business and financial information, do not keep it to yourself. You should discuss the issue directly with a lawyer in the
legal department.
28
Capgemini. Our Code of Business Ethics3.6 Political activities
The Group does not support political parties.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
> No Group contributions. We do not make any cash or in-kind contributions to political
parties on behalf of the Group. This includes direct and indirect support through intermediary
organizations.
> Promote respect. We respect the rights of individuals to participate, as individuals, in politics.
However, we should never represent or endorse a political party on behalf of the Group.
WHAT IS EXPECTED OF ME?
> I should not use the Group’s name to endorse a political activity or event, or represent
the Group in any political activities.
> I will not use any of the Group’s resources or cash to contribute to a political party.
PRACTICAL EXAMPLES
My client is asking us to support their lobbying It appears that the political party in power is about
activities and they want us to add our name to their to change. Could we offer an Accelerated Solutions
lobbying list. Is this acceptable? Environment (ASE) for free to help one of the
No. Lobbying refers to trying to influence government political parties on their strategy formulation?
legislation, regulations, or decision-making. You We should never make any cash donations or provide
should inform our client that we cannot lobby on behalf free use of the Group’s resources when dealing with
of our clients or support their lobbying activities. political parties, since this may be considered a donation
or in-kind contribution in support of the political party.
Can I undertake lobbying activities? Is this However, we can treat political parties as clients and
a political activity? engage on a commercial, fee-paying basis. Because
Because lobbying implicates anti-bribery and anti- even this arrangement implicates anti-bribery and
corruption laws—candidates and political parties may anti-corruption laws—political parties may be deemed
be deemed “government officials”—you should take “government officials”—you should take great care
great care. Any lobbying on behalf of the Group should to involve a lawyer from your legal department, your
be approved by the Group and should be transparent. Country’s Ethics & Compliance Officer, or the Group Chief
Ethics & Compliance Officer.
DISCUSS OPENLY AND SHARE YOUR CONCERNS: If you are facing an issue involving political activities, do not keep
it to yourself. You will get help and support by discussing it with your team manager or your human resources manager.
29Section 3: Business Integrity
30
Capgemini. Our Code of Business Ethics4. Business
relationships
We are committed to
delivering value and building
longstanding relationships
based on mutual trust
with our clients, and at
the same time achieving
profitable and sustainable
growth for the Group.
31Section 4: Business Relationships
4.1 Working with
our clients
We are dedicated to delivering profitable and sustainable
growth by working together with our clients to deliver value
through our expertise and behavior.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
> Client first. We think “client first” and we measure our success in terms of the value we bring
to our clients. Delivering excellence to our clients is our priority.
— W e mobilize the right talent to meet our client’s requirements.
— W e respect our clients and we work in an open and transparent manner.
— A s an independent IT services provider, we objectively evaluate software
and hardware solutions to meet the client’s requirements.
— W e work collaboratively with our clients by building a long-term, distinctive
relationship based on mutual trust.
— W e share our expertise and knowledge with our clients with a view to their short- and
long-term development and we learn from them for our own development purposes.
> Maintaining our standards. While we take bold steps to win business and satisfy our
clients, we will not compromise Capgemini’s ethics and compliance standards to meet
business objectives.
WHAT IS EXPECTED OF ME?
> I use all my talents and capabilities when I work with my client.
> I behave ethically and responsibly with my client.
> I listen to my client and work collaboratively.
> I understand the trust my client has in me and I take bold action to maintain it.
> I do not advise my client to do anything that I do not believe is aligned to his/her interests.
> I communicate openly with my clients. I am transparent and tell them the truth. In case of
delicate or bad news, I get appropriate advice from my team manager or management so
I can communicate openly with my client.
> I f my client acts unethically, I will raise it to my team manager, Ethics & Compliance Officer
or on SpeakUp to get the right guidance.
DISCUSS OPENLY AND SHARE YOUR CONCERNS: If you are facing an issue involving working with our clients, do not
keep it to yourself. You will get help and support by discussing it with your team manager or with your legal department.
32
Capgemini. Our Code of Business EthicsSection 4: Business Relationships
PRACTICAL EXAMPLES
A client wants us to undertake a project, but I am of the opinion
that there is no real business case and that this is not the right
course of action. What can I do?
If you consider that the project will not generate real value for the client
or if the solution requested by the client will not provide a suitable answer
to the business problem, you should first try to influence the client’s point
of view. Ultimately, if you feel you are acting against the client’s interest,
you should decline the project.
My client asks me, in the spirit of collaboration, to perform extra
work without the corresponding change order request or price
adjustment. Is this acceptable?
No. You should follow the specified Group processes and make sure
you do not over-deliver regarding the contract. You should always ensure
that a corresponding change order and, if appropriate, price adjustment
is completed. Being paid appropriately for a service should not affect good
collaboration.
My client has suggested that sponsoring its annual sports event would
help us to obtain a particular deal. What can I do?
You cannot enter into this type of reciprocal bargaining process because
developing good, long standing collaboration with clients does not imply
accepting unfair sales methods. This type of reciprocal dealing could
also raise bribery concerns in certain jurisdictions.
I am about to make a deal with a client for whom I know some referral
fees will be paid by a supplier to the Group. What should I do?
You should adopt a transparent attitude, and tell the client. However,
in some countries, giving or receiving referral fees in connection with
obtaining or retaining business may be prohibited. You should know and
follow that country’s law with respect to giving or receiving referral fees.
If you have any doubt about legality, consult your legal department.
My client’s team received a special team bonus for their good
work, to which I contributed substantially. They propose that
I should be given a share of the bonus. Can I accept?
No. You cannot accept a payment by the client or its employees. To do
so would compromise your position and your affiliation to the Group.
My client, who is also a Group service provider, is trying to impose
contractual terms upon us that are unreasonable and quite different
from those we are negotiating with them as one of our suppliers.
Can we use this opportunity to redress the balance and ask for
“reciprocal treatment”?
Yes. It is perfectly acceptable to seek similar terms and conditions when
we negotiate with the same party both as a client and as a provider.
However, you should consider the context of the situation (including,
if relevant, the sales strategy) and the relevant bargaining positions of
either party when taking this approach.
33Section 4: Business Relationships
4.2 Working with
our partners
and ecosystems
We work with our partners and ecosystems to bring added
value to our clients, and we expect them to comply fully
with the law.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
> Ethical collaboration. We work with our partners and ecosystems in a collaborative and
ethical way to deliver value to our clients.
— W e work with partners and ecosystems whose values and modes of behavior are aligned
to our principles.
— We are transparent with our clients about our relationships with our partners and
ecosystems. Our clients will be informed of any business relationships or referral fee
agreements we have with respect to the services we are offering them. The disclosure
must be in writing and may be a general advance notice in the client contract terms.
— We understand that, when dealing with public sector clients, it could be illegal for the
Group to receive any referral fees.
— We expect our partners and ecosystems to comply with the law, including laws
promoting fair competition, and prohibiting bribery and corruption.
WHAT IS EXPECTED OF ME?
> I will not make an agreement with a partner that is against the interests of our client.
> I will not make an agreement with a partner that violates the law.
> I will work collaboratively and ethically with our partners and ecosystems, and ensure that
clients are aware of our relationships with them.
DISCUSS OPENLY AND SHARE YOUR CONCERNS: If you are facing an issue involving working with our partners or
ecosystems, do not keep it to yourself. You will get help and support by discussing it with your team manager or your
legal department.
34
Capgemini. Our Code of Business EthicsSection 4: Business Relationships
PRACTICAL EXAMPLES
We are bidding with one of our partners for a large international
project where we have a referral fee agreement. This agreement
includes a country where there may be restrictions on referral fees,
although I am unsure of this. How do I find out whether I could be
offering something illegal?
In some countries, the giving or receiving of referral fees in connection
with obtaining or retaining business is a criminal offense. You should
know and follow that country’s law with respect to receiving referral fees.
If you do not know that country’s law or have any doubt whatsoever about
the legality of referral fees, you should consult your legal department.
If the Group can lawfully receive referral fees in the country in question,
you should be transparent and inform your client about the fees,
in coordination with Group Partner leadership.
One of our partners offers a comprehensive and well-known solution,
whereas an alternative open-source solution exists that may be used
free of charge. What can I do?
You should always take the client’s interests into account and never advise
anything that does not concur with your client’s interests. An open-source
solution, while free, may not be the best solution for the client. Each case
should be judged on its own merits. You should always communicate openly
with clients and ensure that you are acting in the best interests of your
client. If the client’s and the Group’s interests conflict or appear to conflict,
you should discuss them with your team manager and take his/her advice.
35Section 4: Business Relationships
4.3 Working with
our suppliers
We work with our suppliers and commit to sound and
sustainable procurement procedures. We expect our
suppliers to comply fully with the laws in the countries in
which they operate.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
> Fair and ethical treatment. We are committed to treating our suppliers and contractors
fairly and we expect our suppliers to conduct their business with us on a fair and ethical basis.
— We strongly discourage reciprocal dealings, such as agreeing to buy from suppliers,
provided they buy from us.
— We expect our suppliers to conduct their business with us on a fair and ethical basis
and in compliance with our Supplier Standards of Conduct—see Appendix for the link.
— C apgemini Supplier Standards of Conduct sets the minimum commitment our company
expects from its suppliers with regard to corporate social responsibility, ethics and anti-
bribery, regulatory compliance, and business relationship standards.
WHAT IS EXPECTED OF ME?
> I am expected to treat suppliers fairly and make decisions based on quality and price.
> I will never agree with our suppliers to do anything that would be against the interests of our
clients.
> I will not make an agreement with our suppliers that violates the laws of the country or
countries in which I work.
> I f I am procuring anything on behalf of the Group, I must follow the Supplier Standards of
Conduct when selecting new suppliers or evaluating current suppliers.
> I will refrain from reciprocal dealings without specific authorization.
PRACTICAL EXAMPLES
I recently went on a site visit to one of I am in negotiations with the procurement officer
our key suppliers and I am concerned about of one of our key suppliers. I think the supplier
their environmental practices. What should I do? can benefit from our Group services. Can I propose
Raise your concern with your team manager or your local that they buy our products in return for keeping
procurement team. The Group has a Supplier Standards our business?
of Conduct in place to monitor the environmental No. As a Group we refrain from reciprocal dealings;
and social practices of our suppliers, in order to ensure only in exceptional situations and with prior authorization
a sustainable supply chain. might this be allowed.
DISCUSS OPENLY AND SHARE YOUR CONCERNS: If you are facing an issue involving working with our suppliers,
do not keep it to yourself. You will get help and support by discussing it with your team manager or your legal department.
36
Capgemini. Our Code of Business EthicsSection 4: Business Relationships
5. Group and
third-party assets
We are expected to maintain
the security and integrity
of the assets of the Group
and of the third parties with
which we work. We use them
responsibly and professionally.
37Section 5: Group and Third-Party Assets
5.1 Intellectual property
Intellectual property is one of the Group’s most valuable
assets. We need to ensure the validity and integrity of
all intellectual property rights belonging to the Group,
through copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade secrets, and
confidentiality. We must respect the intellectual property
rights of our clients, competitors, business partners, and
suppliers.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
> Group property. Any intellectual property produced by Group employees while working for
the Group remains the property of the Group or of its clients, depending on the terms of
the contract signed with the relevant client. We should not put at risk any Group or client
intellectual property, whether or not formally protected, during our employment or after we
have left the Group.
WHAT IS EXPECTED OF ME?
> I must understand the concept of intellectual property.
> I must ensure that I correctly use any intellectual property owned by the Group or by any
third party.
PRACTICAL EXAMPLES
I am working in a team that is developing a I just did some research on our competitors and
new methodology. Can I personally reuse the found a great offering. Can I copy the offering and
methodology outside my work with the Group? modify the material for our own offer development?
No. Any intellectual property, including methodology, No. We do not take any third-party intellectual property
software, hardware, processes, tools, and know-how without authorization. Unauthorized use of others’
produced while working for the Group remains the intellectual property can expose the Group and even
property of the Group or of its client. individual team members to civil lawsuits and damages.
DISCUSS OPENLY AND SHARE YOUR CONCERNS: If you are facing an issue involving intellectual property, do not keep
it to yourself. You will get help and support by discussing it with your team manager or your legal department.
38
Capgemini. Our Code of Business EthicsSection 5: Group and Third-Party Assets
5.2 Confidential
information
We are expected to preserve confidential information
belonging to the Group or our team members, clients,
business partners, and suppliers.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
> Confidential information. Information is deemed confidential if it is defined as such by law
or by contract. The following categories of information are almost always confidential:
— I nformation provided by our clients, suppliers, and business partners that the Group has
committed not to disclose.
— I nformation regarding our commercial and economic strategy.
— I nformation about our recruitment and wage policies.
— Personal data.
— K now-how, trade secrets, patents, and software developed within the Group.
> Protection. We take appropriate and reasonable measures, including relevant security
measures, to protect confidential information concerning the Group, its team members,
clients, business partners, and suppliers:
— W e must maintain the confidentiality of our clients’ and suppliers’ business information.
We must strictly adhere to any commitments the Group has made to a client, business
partner, or supplier about confidentiality. When working for several clients, we must take
the necessary steps to protect against the transfer of their confidential information from
one client to another.
— W hen our employment with the Group ends, we are required to return all confidential
information in our possession and respect our confidentiality obligations.
WHAT IS EXPECTED OF ME?
> I am expected to protect the confidential information of the Group and our team members,
clients, business partners, and suppliers from unauthorized disclosure or access.
> I must avoid discussing confidential information in public where conversations can be overheard.
PRACTICAL EXAMPLES I often travel and I like to save confidential data on
a USB key. Is this appropriate?
I often work offsite or at home. What are my responsibilities If you travel frequently and need to have confidential informa-
in terms of confidential information? tion on a USB key or any other portable device, you should
All confidential information should be treated with the same get it encrypted to prevent unauthorized use or disclosures.
standards of security whether offsite or in the office. Hard
I am very active on social media. Can I make reference
copies must not be accessible to unauthorized parties and must
to my current role and responsibilities within the Group
be disposed of appropriately. It is advisable to avoid taking
on these websites?
confidential hard copies outside the office environment.
Yes. You can outline your role and responsibilities, as long as
I am traveling with a colleague to an offsite location. you do not disclose any confidential information. However,
Is it appropriate to talk about work in public? given today’s world it may be advisable to minimize or even
You can talk about work but should be careful your conversation refrain from making such references in case your comments
is not overheard. You should not mention the name of the Group, are taken out of context. Always remember your association
any client, business partner, or individual names where they can be with the Group when posting on social media. You should
overheard. Take extra care when participating in phone calls in public not represent or speak on behalf of the Group unless explicitly
spaces or using your laptop when people can look over your shoulder. authorized to do so.
DISCUSS OPENLY AND SHARE YOUR CONCERNS: If you are facing an issue involving confidential information, do not
keep it to yourself. You will get help and support by discussing it with your team manager or your legal department.
39Section 5: Group and Third-Party Assets
5.3 Protecting
personal data
Legal data protection and legal data security are crucial for
each affiliate of Capgemini. The financial and reputational
risks are high. Capgemini has created a strong internal data
protection organization and a solid Data Protection Program
to protect the company against these risks.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
> A broad notion. The notion of personal data is very broad, since it refers to any type of
data that enables to identify an individual, either directly or indirectly. As a result, not only
information such as the name, last name, and email address will be considered as personal
data, but also information such as log information and IP addresses, since these enable to
identify the individual indirectly.
> An extensive application. It must be noted that data protection regulations apply to
any processing of personal data, irrespective of the context in which the personal data is
being processed. In other words, personal data processed in the business context or in an
employment relationship are subject to the same rules as in relation to private processing
activities.
> Data protection is not only a European Union-centric matter. Although data protection
is often perceived as a European Union-centric matter, legislation related to personal data
protection is increasingly being adopted outside the European Union (EU), and is very much
influenced by the EU legal requirements. Moreover, Capgemini is convinced that for data
protection obligations to be effectively implemented throughout the organization, it needs
to apply the same principles irrespective of the geographies.
> Rules apply also for data processing. Capgemini takes data protection very seriously and
has therefore defined a range of policies and procedures that define the commitments
Capgemini takes when processing personal data both on its behalf and on behalf of its
customers.
WHAT IS EXPECTED OF ME?
> I must complete the relevant data protection training.
> I always make sure that when I collect personal data, it is for a specific reason and that the
personal data I collect are only those that I strictly need. I do not collect personal data “just in
case” they may be useful in the future.
> I should document properly the processing activities I launch using the tools provided by the
data protection community.
> I should comply with personal data protection laws of jurisdictions from which the personal
data is collected and in which it is processed or used.
DISCUSS OPENLY AND SHARE YOUR CONCERNS: If you are facing an issue regarding personal data protection, do not
keep it to yourself. You will get help and support by discussing it with your local Data Protection Officer.
40
Capgemini. Our Code of Business EthicsPRACTICAL EXAMPLES
A business partner wants to send his/her training opportunities
to everyone in my department and has asked me for the email list.
Can I provide the list to him/her?
No. Before sharing such information you need to verify with your
local Data Protection Officer what is the way forward. Your local Data
Protection Officer will help you determining which are the measures
to consider and to implement.
We entered into a contract, with a client based in the EU, which will
require the handling of personal data relating to their clients and
employees. Part of the services are rendered by the Group in India.
Can I send personal data to India?
In the EU, stringent laws regulate the protection of personal data.
When exported outside the EU, we need to offer at least an equivalent
level of protection. For this purpose, Capgemini has adopted Binding
Corporate Rules, which guarantee that any personal data transfer to
another Capgemini entity out of the EU benefits from an adequate level
of protection. However, in order to tackle the different requirements
inferred by a data transfer to, or access from Capgemini India, please
consult your local Data Protection Officer.
I have received information, sent in error, concerning the salaries
of my team members. What should I do?
As soon as you become aware of this you should avoid reading and using
the information. Delete the email and contact the person who sent it
to you. If you receive a hard copy, return it to the sender in a sealed
envelope. You should not use this information in any way, for any purposes.
You should also contact immediately your local Data Protection Officer
or the competent Cybersecurity Officer to report this incident.
41Section 5: Group and Third-Party Assets
5.4 Appropriate use
of Group and third-party
assets and resources
We are personally accountable for the protection of the Group
and third-party assets and resources under our control.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
> Responsible and professional use. We use assets and resources that belong to the Group,
to help us achieve our business goals.
— W e take care of third-party assets and resources as if they were our own.
— W e must not access, use, or attempt to use Group or third-party electronic resources to
access, store, send, post, or publish material that is inappropriate. This includes material
that is pornographic, sexually exploitative, obscene, racist, sexist, or in any other way
discriminatory, threatening or harassing, personally offensive, defamatory, or illegal.
— W e are expected to take the necessary steps to protect any assets and resources
of the Group and/or third parties that are under our control against loss, theft, and
unauthorized disclosure.
WHAT IS EXPECTED OF ME?
> I take care to protect Group and third-party assets and resources.
> I use the Group’s physical and electronic resources for business purposes only, except for
minor circumstances in which personal use is permitted.
> I acknowledge that use of the Group network to transmit or store material is under the
control of the Group.
> I am expected to read and understand my local IT security or use policy.
PRACTICAL EXAMPLES
I am organizing a large personal event outside I am going out for lunch. What should I think about
work and need to make sure I have enough flyers in terms of security before I leave my desk?
to distribute. Can I use the Group photocopiers? Always wear your security pass, lock your computer
No. This is not appropriate use of Group resources. screen, and make sure that any confidential or sensitive
information is stored away.
Can I use my work internet access to browse Make sure that your computer is physically secured
the internet for personal purposes? with a device such as a security cable to prevent loss
Limited use of communication tools such as email or theft, especially if you work on a laptop.
and the internet may be acceptable, if it does not
incur any costs and does not interfere with your job
responsibilities.
In general, during non-working hours you may use your
professional laptop incidentally for personal purposes.
However, you must not install unauthorized software.
DISCUSS OPENLY AND SHARE YOUR CONCERNS: If you are facing an issue regarding the appropriate use of
Group and third-party assets and resources, do not keep it to yourself. You will get help and support by discussing it
with your team manager.
42
Capgemini. Our Code of Business EthicsSection 5: Group and Third-Party Assets
6. Corporate social
responsibility
As responsible citizens,
we support the communities
and respect the environment
in which we operate.
43Section 6: Responsible Citizenship
6.1 Contributing
to communities
The Group is committed to create a positive impact on the
communities in which it lives and operates. As a leading
responsible company, it has designed and implemented a
Digital Inclusion Strategy to focus its work in the community
by reducing the digital divide and enabling disadvantaged
people to overcome their exclusion.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
> Digital Inclusion. Our work in the community is focused on imparting basic to specialized
digital and technological skills to digitally excluded people, with the aim of making digital
an opportunity for all. We partner with various local Non-Governmental Organization (NGO)
partners and social innovators in this endeavor, to create sustainable positive impact in
communities around the world.
> Get involved. The engagement of our employees is a key lever for us to translate this
ambition into reality. We aim for all employees to play an active part, to create positive impact
as Architects of Positive Futures.
WHAT IS EXPECTED OF ME?
> I am encouraged to participate in our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives.
> I will obtain relevant approvals before using work time for volunteering opportunities.
> I will obtain the relevant approvals before using the Group name and resources to support an
NGO.
PRACTICAL EXAMPLES
I would like to participate in a volunteering activity I am actively involved with a local community group
with our local charity during a working week. and we are organizing a large event. Can the Group
Does the Group allow for volunteering days? sponsor or donate meeting rooms for the event?
Check your local policies on what is allowed. In some Any donations, gifts, or in-kind contributions need
countries, certain Group companies allow a few to be approved. Check with your team manager what
days to be booked for volunteering, especially level of approval is required. The legal department,
when participating in a volunteering event with an tax department, human resources department, and
organization supported by the Group. even the communications department may be involved.
Also, check whether the organization you wish to donate
to complies with Group policies; the Group does not
sponsor religious or political organizations.
DISCUSS OPENLY AND SHARE YOUR CONCERNS: If you are facing an issue related to contributing to communities,
do not keep it to yourself. You will get help and support by discussing it with your team manager or country CSR leader
or your Ethics & Compliance officer.
44
Capgemini. Our Code of Business Ethics6.2 Minimizing our impact
on the environment
We recognize that business activities have impacts on the
environment, and we are committed to minimizing these
impacts.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
> Respect the environment. The Group is committed to identifying and complying with
all legal and other relevant requirements related to the environmental impacts of its
operations.
— We seek to minimize the negative environmental impacts of the Group’s business
activities for example, with regard to: emissions from energy consumption in our offices
and data centers, and business travel; our waste and IT asset management; and our
procurement activities.
> Innovate to reduce impact. We use and adapt our capabilities and expertise to help our
clients reduce their environmental impact and meet their environmental objectives.
WHAT IS EXPECTED OF ME?
> I adhere to environmental laws and relevant Group and local policies.
> I am expected to minimize the impact of my work on the environment. This includes making
informed choices that minimize the impact of carbon emissions from business travel, saving
energy in our offices and data centers, considering the environmental impact of procurement
decisions, reducing waste through recycling schemes and avoidance of single-use plastics,
and contributing to other environmental initiatives.
> I seek ways to innovate with my clients to leverage our business and technology transformation
capabilities, to support them with their environmental objectives.
PRACTICAL EXAMPLES I regularly receive information and advice about
carsharing or reducing plastic and am often
I am traveling abroad and there is an option to go told to switch off lights and print double-sided.
by train or by plane. What do I choose? Do my personal actions really make a difference?
First, check whether it is essential to travel. The Group Absolutely. In a company the size of Capgemini, individual
offers numerous virtual working tools, such as Microsoft actions taken across the Group can quickly add up to
Teams and dedicated videoconferencing spaces. If significant impacts. If you need to travel to the office,
you cannot avoid travel, look to balance time, costs choosing to carshare or travel by public transport can
and environmental impacts. A rail journey will typically help reduce carbon emissions and lower air pollution
have a carbon impact 6–10 times lower than a flight within cities. Avoiding single-use plastics not only reduces
of the equivalent distance, direct flights are generally the amount of plastic ending up in landfill sites and
more carbon efficient than those with stopovers, and marine environments, it also avoids the energy and the
airport taxis can add significantly to the cost and the materials used to produce the plastic in the first place.
carbon of your journey. Considering the time, costs, and Where office lighting is not automated, please switch off
environmental impacts across the whole journey will help lights at the end of meetings. When printing is essential,
you to make the appropriate decision that can support choosing to print double-sided dramatically reduces
our environmental objectives, balanced with the needs paper consumption, saving the environmental impacts
of our business and our clients. of both the printing and the entire life-cycle of the paper.
DISCUSS OPENLY AND SHARE YOUR CONCERNS: If you are facing an issue involving an impact on the
environment, do not keep it to yourself. You will get help and support by discussing it with your team manager
or country CSR leader.
45Appendix
1. Code of Business Ethics
https://talent.capgemini.com/global/pages/about_us/our_group/ethicsandcompliance/policies__guidelines/policies/code_of_business_ethics/
2. Group Conflict of Interest Policy
https://talent.capgemini.com/global/pages/about_us/our_group/ethicsandcompliance/policies__guidelines/policies/conflict_of_interest/
3. SpeakUp Policy
https://talent.capgemini.com/global/pages/about_us/our_group/ethicsandcompliance/speakup/
4. SpeakUp helpline
https://www.capgemini.com/speakup
5. Ethics & Compliance Talent Hub
https://talent.capgemini.com/global/pages/about_us/our_group/ethicsandcompliance/
6. Ethics & Compliance Network
https://talent.capgemini.com/global/pages/about_us/our_group/ethicsandcompliance/ethics__compliance_network_new/
7. Blue Book
https://talent.capgemini.com/global/pages/about_us/our_group/ethicsandcompliance/policies__guidelines/policies/blue_book_intro/
8. Group Anti-Corruption Policy
https://talent.capgemini.com/global/pages/about_us/our_group/ethicsandcompliance/policies__guidelines/policies/Group_Anti_Corruption_Policy/
9. Group Competition Laws Policy
https://talent.capgemini.com/global/pages/about_us/our_group/ethicsandcompliance/policies__guidelines/policies/group_competition_laws_policy/
10. Supplier Standards of Conduct
https://talent.capgemini.com/media_library/Medias/About_Competitiveness_in_Action/Capgemini_Supplier_Standards_of_Conduct_-_V5.2.pdf
11. Social Media Guidelines
https://talent.capgemini.com/global/pages/about_us/global_functions/ethicsandcompliance/policies__guidelines/guidelines/social_media_guidelines/
12. Closed Periods
https://talent.capgemini.com/global/pages/hubs/global_functions/Finance_Community/Rules_and_Policies/closed_periods/
The information contained in this document is proprietary.
Copyright © 2023 Capgemini. All rights reserved.
Graphic design: Avant Midi. April 2023 – Version 3.4
4466
CCaappggeemmiinnii.. OOuurr CCooddee ooff BBuussiinneessss EEtthhiiccssCapgemini Values & Ethics | Talent Capgemini
Place de l’Étoile – 11, rue de Tilsitt
75 017 PARIS – France
47Learn more about us at
www.capgemini.com