Code of
Business ConductWelcome message from Chuck Robbins, Chair and CEO
Team,
Our customers, partners, and stakeholders around If you ever have questions about the right thing to do, or feel that the COBC is being
the world trust us, and the products and services violated, please speak up — talk with your manager, contact ethics@cisco.com or reach
we deliver, because of our unwavering commitment out to the Legal team. You may also share concerns anonymously through the Ethics
to uphold Cisco’s values and make the right choices WebForm, or the multi-lingual EthicsLine phone service.
in how we conduct business.
It is absolutely critical for all of us at Cisco to adhere to the highest ethical standards.
The Cisco Code of Business Conduct (COBC) We owe it to our customers, partners, shareholders, communities, and each other.
reflects these values and is a resource to help you Thank you for being a part of Cisco, and for demonstrating our Conscious Culture in all
make business decisions and resolve issues you that you do.
may encounter.
We are all accountable, empowered and expected
to create a culture where everyone not only feels
safe, but can thrive. Our culture, principles, and commitment to full-spectrum diversity
and inclusion should continue to guide all our business dealings and interactions, including Chuck Robbins
how we treat one another. Cisco does not tolerate harassment or discrimination of any Chair and CEO
kind. It is important that you feel confident and safe in sharing any concerns and
that Cisco will address the concerns in an appropriate manner. This is discussed further
in the COBC under the heading: “I Respect Others.”
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business ConductTable of ContentsI Know our Code and Act Ethically
Innovative ideas, emerging technologies, strategic acquisitions and a hybrid work environment. We work in a fast-paced industry where change is
constant. But some things will never change, like our commitment to doing business honestly, ethically, and with respect for one another. Making the right
ethical business decision and doing the right thing must be part of our DNA. Sometimes, situations arise where the right decision isn’t completely clear.
That’s where the COBC can help. Cisco continually monitors laws and regulations worldwide and updates the COBC
annually to reflect such changes. In some cases, a country’s local laws may establish
requirements different from our COBC. A country’s local laws always override the COBC,
Our COBC is a user-friendly resource you can rely on to help determine what’s appropriate
however, when a local business practice conflicts with our COBC, we follow our COBC.
when it comes to acting with integrity in the workplace.
When in doubt, ask for help by contacting ethics@cisco.com.
The Code promotes:
Annual and new hire certification of the COBC and other supplemental code(s) and
guidelines are required (subject to local law). Chairman and CEO Chuck Robbins and the
· Honest and ethical conduct in all internal and external relationships
Board of Directors require all employees, on an annual basis, to review, understand, certify,
F· ull, fair, accurate, timely, and understandable disclosure in
and comply with the COBC when notified. Employees with certain roles and responsibilities
public reports and documents
may also be required to complete additional certifications and training.
· Protection of all confidential, personal, and proprietary information
· Compliance with applicable government laws rules, regulations, and directives
As part of the on-boarding process, new hires are required to complete the COBC
· P rompt internal reporting of any violations of the COBC, whether internal
certification and any other relevant supplemental codes and mandatory training when they
or external to Cisco
join Cisco.
· Compliance with the COBC by every Cisco employee worldwide
· Creating a conscious culture
Waivers granted to executive officers or members of Cisco’s Board of Directors must
be approved by the Board and may also be subject to public disclosure, along with the
The COBC is extensive... but not exhaustive. It’s not possible to address every situation.
reasons for granting the waiver.
We rely on you to exercise good judgment in your decision making and to ask for help
when you have questions or concerns that are not addressed in the COBC.
Keep in mind, no one has the authority to make you engage in behavior that violates
the COBC.
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 4Ethical Decision-Making
What if...
Make good choices. We are each responsible for:
What if I work in a country where the local laws conflict with the guidance
of the COBC? You should always follow the local laws. In some cases, a • Creating a Conscious Culture and complying with laws and regulations
country’s local laws may establish requirements different from our COBC. in the countries where we do business.
A country’s local laws always override the COBC, however, when a local • Knowing and complying with our COBC and other company policies.
business practice conflicts with our COBC, we follow our COBC. When in
doubt, ask for help by contacting ethics@cisco.com. When faced with an ethical dilemma, you have a responsibility to take action. It may seem
easier to say nothing or look the other way, but taking no action is, in itself, an action that
What if I have a concern with the COBC or have reservations about can have serious consequences. Our continued success depends on you making decisions
completing my certification? You should discuss any concerns with your that are consistent with our core values and principles.
manager, Human Resources (PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES), or ethics@cisco.
com. Regardless of your COBC certification status, you are always obligated There are rules and policies in our COBC. By certifying, we agree to follow those or face
to follow the policies contained within the COBC. Completion of the COBC the potential consequences of disciplinary action, up to and including termination. Use the
certification is a condition of employment at Cisco. guide on the next page to help you choose the best course of action.
• Federal Sales Resources
• Global Anti-Corruption E-Learning
• Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy
• Policy and Process Central
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 5Ask yourself these questions for
Ask for help
the best outcome
Yes No
Is it legal?
Does this comply with
Cisco policy?
Does this reflect Cisco’s values
and culture?
If you answer YES to these questions, it’s likely appropriate to move
forward. If the response is No to any of these questions, stop and
reconsider. Remember, it is always appropriate to ask for help to avoid
Is this action favorable for any serious consquences.
company stakeholders?
For help, contact any of these resources:
Policy Central and Process Central | Your Manager |
Would this represent Cisco in a
HR (People&Communities) | Legal | ethics@cisco.com
positive light in a news headline?
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 6I Share My Concerns
As a Cisco employee, you have a responsibility to create a Conscious Culture and share your concerns when you see or suspect something that could
harm another employee or the company. You also have an obligation to speak up promptly about anything you believe may constitute a
violation. If you see or experience something that “just doesn’t feel right”, you are encouraged and supported to come forward.
What’s the best way to ask or report a concern? Ask or report. You can confidentially contact the Ethics Office:
Talk to your manager, an People & Communities representative, or Legal. Cisco does Email: ethics@cisco.com
not tolerate retaliation against an employee for a question or report of misconduct made You can also contact the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors via email at:
honestly and in good faith. Retaliating against an individual who asks a question or reports a auditcommittee@external.cisco.com
COBC violation is in itself a COBC violation.
Online: Ethics WebForm, for Cisco employees, non-employees, and anonymous reporting.
If you do not feel comfortable talking with your manager or People & Communities, or When reporting matters anonymously, please ensure that you retain your unique URL
you don’t feel the outcome resolved the issue, please contact ethics@cisco.com. The or case number so that we can use our platform to stay in contact if we have further
Ethics Office is available to all employees, customers, partners, shareholders, and other questions while ensuring that you maintain your anonymity.
stakeholders who wish to raise concerns. The Ethics Office manages all inquiries promptly,
efficiently, and confidentially, to the extent possible by law. Phone: The multilingual EthicsLine is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week,
worldwide, with country-based, toll-free phone numbers. The EthicsLine is staffed by
During investigations, employees are required to cooperate and tell the truth. Failure to do a leading, third-party reporting service. You may remain anonymous* when you call.
so may result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination. However, the investigation may be hindered if the investigator is unable to contact you for
further information.
*Please note: Some countries do not allow such concerns to be reported anonymously.
Regular mail: Questions and concerns can also be submitted — confidentially or
anonymously — using the following private mailbox (PMB):
Cisco Systems, Audit Committee
105 Serra Way, PMB #112, Milpitas, CA 95035
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 7What if...
What if Cisco Corporate Investigations (CCI) asks me to participate in an
internal investigation about a fraud situation within my organization? Do I
have to cooperate? Yes. As a Cisco employee, you are obligated to cooperate
in internal investigations.
What if I reported a concern, but never heard anything back about it? All
matters are addressed promptly, but it may not be possible for the results to
be communicated back to you due to privacy/confidentiality requirements.
If the concern was reported anonymously using the Ethics WebForm, you
can check on the status of your submission using the link you received when
creating your original submission through the anonymous site. Our third-
party provider may respond to your inquiry with follow-up questions using the
Ethics WebForm tool. Calls to the multilingual EthicsLine are assigned a case
number, so you can remain anonymous, and still follow-up on your concern.
How do I get in touch with my PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES representative or
Employee Relations? Please access the Employee Services
Help Zone website.
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 8I Respect Others
A Conscious Culture means being aware of your environment and being accountable. Cisco strives to create an inclusive culture that is welcoming,
positive, creative, and rewarding ― an environment that promotes individual and team expression, innovation, and achievement.
How are Cisco employees empowered to succeed? Harassment can take many forms, including unwelcome verbal or physical contact, or
repeated misconduct that may be seen as objectively offensive by a reasonable person.
Any type of harassment is a violation of Cisco’s philosophy and policies.
You should do your job without fear of discrimination, harassment, or bullying.
Our workplace accommodates individuals with disabilities. Disabilities may be visible or
Cisco is passionate about preserving our positive culture and ensuring that each individual
invisible. Likewise, individuals’ disabilities may not be apparent at first. We welcome the
is treated with respect, fairness, and dignity as a valued member of the Cisco team. Cisco
many talents and innovations of people with disabilities and are committed to removing
is proud of and values its global, diverse workforce.
barriers for our employees, customers, partners, and suppliers.
Cisco prohibits conduct that singles out an employee or a group of employees in a
The Connected Disabilities Action Network (CDAN), a global Employee Resource
negative way based on characteristics, existence, and attributes that have been the basis
Organization at Cisco, provides a strong support network for individuals with disabilities.
for historical marginalization, and all categories protected by law. In all of our employment-
Cisco’s Employee Relations provides subject matter expertise as they guide managers and
related processes, decisions are made without regard to:
employees through Cisco’s accommodation process.
Age Ancestry Caste Color Citizenship
We are committed to providing a safe and non-threatening workplace. Employees
Gender Gender expression Gender identity Gender information should be familiar with and follow all security and safety guidelines and report any unsafe
conditions, situations, or accidents. Any acts of violence toward another person or
Marital status Medical condition National origin company property should be reported immediately. For more information, please go to the
Corporate Security Center.
Physical or mental disability Pregnancy Race Religion
You can help protect Cisco assets by adhering to the Cisco Global Access Control Policy,
Sexual orientation Veteran status
which includes wearing your Cisco Badge and ensuring it is visible at all times. Always scan
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 9your badge at the door access reader before entering a Cisco facility and do not allow un- What if...
badged persons into Cisco buildings. Please contact the Corporate Security Center.
What if I feel like I am being discriminated against because of my gender?
We provide safeguards for your personal information. Cisco respects the privacy rights
You should follow any of the listed ways to address your concerns about
and interests of all its employees and provides safeguards for the protection of personal
discrimination in the workplace:
information that is collected, held,and used. Everyone must appropriately respect individual
privacy rights and handle PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES personal information in accordance
1. Report it to ethics@cisco.com
with the Global People Data Protection Policy.
2. Tell your manager
3. Open a case with People & Communities or Employee Relations
We have a strict drug and alcohol policy. Employees are not permitted to use, possess,
sell, transfer, manufacture, distribute, or be under the influence of, illegal drugs on Cisco-
What if my manager or co-worker made a comment that made me
owned or leased property, during working hours, while on company business, or while
feel uncomfortable? Is that harassment? You are entitled to work in an
using company property. Although certain jurisdictions may allow the prescription or other
environment free from intimidating, hostile, or offensive behavior that is
use of marijuana, this policy also applies to marijuana, which remains illegal under U.S.
subject to legal protection. Not every offensive or critical comment meets
Federal law. Employees are not permitted to use, possess, sell, transfer, manufacture,
those requirements. If you are uncomfortable, please contact your People
distribute or be under the influence of these drugs while on Cisco owned or leased
and Communities representative, ethics@cisco.com, or Legal for help in
property, during working hours, while on company business, or while using company
determining the next steps.
property. In addition, no employee may report for work, go on or remain on duty while
under the influence of, or impaired by, alcohol or these drugs or substances. Alcohol use at
What if I receive a phone call from someone requesting information about
company-sponsored events is allowed only with prior written approval in accordance with
a co-worker? You should not disclose personal information about your co-
the Global Meetings and Events Policy.
workers to anyone. Employee work information such as phone numbers,
email addresses, and reporting structures, are Cisco proprietary/confidential
All employees who consume alcohol at company-sponsored events are expected to
information and should never be provided to unknown persons.
consume alcohol responsibly. Violation of the Drugs and Alcohol in the Workplace Policy
will result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
• Global Events
• Corporate Security
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 10I Use Resources Responsibly
Cisco counts on you to use good judgment to conserve and safeguard company resources. This section will help you understand the proper use
of Cisco’s resources.
What’s allowed and what is prohibited? Using the company’s resources is not private. Information and material transmitted or
stored on company resources may be monitored, retained, or reviewed. Note: When
employees use their personal devices (smart phones, tablets, etc.) for work, those devices
Company assets: Office space, and things like computers, copiers, internet access, and
are subject to monitoring and review by Cisco, and employees need to protect any
office supplies, for example. Company assets are provided for business use and should be
company-related information that is exchanged or stored on those devices at all times
used for business purposes to advance company objectives.
(refer to I Am Trusted with Data).
Limited personal use: Of course, Cisco understands that employees may need to use
Be respectful and professional when using the internet and social media tools. Cisco
Cisco resources from time to time. Such occasional use of company assets for personal
empowers employees to use social media to conduct company business, as well as to
reasons is permitted, within reason, as long as it does not compromise Cisco’s interest or
facilitate collaboration and innovation. As noted in our Social & Digital Media Policy, it’s
adversely affect job performance (yours or that of your co-workers).
very important to avoid mishandling intellectual property or improperly disclosing any
Note: For diversity guidance regarding the use of company resources for personal belief
personal data or confidential/restricted information (refer to I Am Trusted with Data). The
topics or activities, refer to the Policy on Use of Cisco Assets for Activities Relating to
rules for proper conduct in the physical world also apply “online”. If you are ever unsure,
Employees’ Personal Beliefs.
submit a question to internetpostings@cisco.com.
Examples of Unauthorized use of Cisco resources:
Approved
• Borrowing or removing Cisco resources from company premises
without proper authorization. Business use: Conscientious, lawful, and professional use of email, computers, and
• Using Cisco resources to support a personal business, consulting efforts, other communications systems for work is acceptable. This includes protecting Cisco’s
or outside fundraising activity. brand. Our copyrighted works (such as documentation, graphics, images, videos, audio
• Demo or lab equipment, or resources that have been identified as “scrap,” garbage, recordings, and software) should be used only for business purposes pursuant to
or destined for recycling, cannot be used for non-company purposes without approval. Cisco’s policies.
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 11Proper use of internal communication channels: Cisco internal communications (e.g., Use of Non-Cisco Messaging Apps
discussion forums, intranet communities, mailers, etc.) support collaboration and peer Non-Cisco messaging applications such as iMessage, Signal, SnapChat, WhatsApp,
relationships. The use of these communication channels should be consistent with the Cisco WeChat, Wickr, Slack, Telegram, etc., have become prevalent in recent years and provide
values of trust, integrity, inclusion, and respect for others. a convenient way to conduct real-time communications. But these non-Cisco messaging
apps should not be used to transact Cisco business or to conduct communications that
Prohibited or Requires Authorization would create Business Records, see the Enterprise Data Retention and Destruction
Policy. This is especially true for ephemeral messaging applications where the message
Use of Cisco assets for non-company purposes: disappears upon or shortly after reading. Communications that may create Business
Records must be conducted using Cisco-approved communications tools for Business
Political activities and contributions: You may participate in political activities on an Records and maintained in Cisco-approved repositories, such as SharePoint. If you
individual basis, on your own time, with your own resources and money (refer to the inadvertently create, store, or transfer Business Records using non-Cisco messaging apps
I Follow the Law section). You may not use Cisco assets including time at work, use of Cisco (for example, if a customer initiates a communication with you using such an app), you
premises or equipment to contribute to a political candidate, political action committee, or must ensure that such Business Records are promptly preserved and maintained in Cisco-
ballot measure without the written permission of the SVP Chief Government Strategy Officer. approved repositories.
Cisco trademarks should not be used on non-company materials or as part of any domain
name that is not registered, used, and controlled by the company.
Keep it legal and keep it clean: Do not access, distribute, download, or upload material
(including music) that is prohibited by law or protected by third-party copyright without What if...
permission from the owner. Sexual content, offensive language, derogatory comments about
race, gender, sexual orientation, age, religion, or anything that would reflect negatively on
What if I store some personal items on my Cisco laptop like family photos
Cisco is also prohibited.
and a family newsletter? Is Cisco allowed to view these items? Yes. Cisco
may review information and material transmitted or stored on
Inappropriate use of internal communications channels:
company resources.
• Email and mailers may not be used to solicit illegal or fraudulent activity or enable or
encourage another to breach a contract. · E-mail Distribution Policy for Mass Emails and Mailer
• Internal communications channels may not be used for political activities without the
written permission of the SVP Chief Government Strategy Officer.
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 12I Am Trusted with Data
We are trusted as a leader in world-changing technology. Each of us is responsible for protecting the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of confidential,
personal, and proprietary information, whether it belongs to Cisco, our employees, customers, vendors, partners, or others with whom we do business.
We are also tasked with ensuring that data is processed and protected according to privacy and security requirements, rules, and regulations worldwide.
We are transparent, fair, and accountable. Data Protection and Privacy Policy or the Global People Data Protection Policy relevant
to the data you or your organization handles, and complete regular security and privacy
education and awareness training.
We are transparent, fair, and accountable in how we secure our products and data to earn
the verifiable trust of our customers, partners, shareholders, and employees. Securing and
Cisco has implemented and enforces security policies and controls on all electronic and
protecting Cisco and third-party data is everyone’s business. We all play an important
computing devices used to conduct Cisco business or interact with networks and business
role in enabling Cisco’s strategy of aligning business and technology priorities to provide
systems, whether owned or leased by Cisco, an employee, or third-party. Subject to
pervasive security and privacy and maintain our reputation as a responsible data custodian.
applicable law, Cisco may inspect or monitor (at any time) messages, files, data, software,
or other information (whether business or personal) stored on these devices or transmitted
How do we protect data?
over the Cisco network or at Cisco facilities to ensure compliance with Cisco policies. If
you use your own personal devices for work (even over your own network), those devices
It is critical that employees understand our expectations for protecting data, applications,
are subject to monitoring and review and remain subject to Cisco privacy and security
and their underlying systems.
requirements. All devices that connect to Cisco’s networks or are used to conduct Cisco
business must adhere to the Trusted Device Standard. Devices that do not comply with
We need to take the appropriate training found on the Keep Cisco Safe, Cisco Security
this standard may receive only limited access to applications, services, or data.
Space Center, and Privacy Learning and Development intranet sites to build
our knowledge.
Cisco also maintains physical and digital security monitoring systems and capabilities for
the protection of our people, assets, resources, and business interests. These systems
Cisco outlines the data lifecycle and our framework for classifying and protecting data
are generally focused on common areas, such as parking lots, entryways, and hallways;
based on its nature, level of sensitivity, value, and criticality. We must also understand
however, Cisco reserves the right (subject to applicable law) to monitor other public and
any additional, applicable privacy policies and requirements, such as Business Personal
semi-public areas, including offices or workstations, when necessary, for safety, security,
and policy compliance.
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 13Incident Reporting. An incident is any situation where protected data can be lost, stolen, What if...
compromised, or otherwise improperly handled, including attempts (failed or unsuccessful)
to gain unauthorized access to a system or its data. Just as we take steps to protect our
My email program auto filled the wrong address, and I disclosed sensitive
own information, we must also protect Cisco’s information by reporting any known or
customer information to another customer by accident. What should I do?
suspected incident involving personal data and/or confidential/proprietary information. All
Report the incident immediately to our Incident Command team by accessing
employees must report all incidents upon discovery at Report an Incident page.
the CLIP Tool and selecting “Data Protection & Privacy” – “Submit a data loss
incident.” Do not take any further action until you are contacted by the Incident
Security and Privacy Agreements. In addition to applicable legal requirements and internal
Command team. Use the CLIP tool to immediately report any accidental or
Cisco security and privacy policies, we must also comply with a variety of agreements
inappropriate disclosures of data to the Incident Command Team and wait
related to security and privacy, which may include non-disclosure agreements and
for their direction. CLIP is an enterprise-wide business escalation platform to
contractual confidentiality requirements placed on Cisco by our customers and other third
record data privacy and security incidents.
parties (for example, see Master Data Protection Agreement). Before sharing data with
third parties, employees must have authorization and disclose only what is necessary
Do Cisco privacy policies apply only to products and services or do they
(“need to know”) to accomplish the legitimate business need.
also apply to our internal systems and processes? Cisco privacy policies
apply wherever Cisco processes personal information, whether it’s collected
Bringing Information into Cisco. Any unsolicited or unauthorized third-party, confidential/
from the products and services we sell or the internal business systems
proprietary information must not be used by Cisco without permission from the owner. If
and processes we use. Necessary privacy and security controls must be
such information is received by an employee, it must be immediately returned to the owner,
implemented so that Cisco can honor its commitments to its customers,
deleted, destroyed, or transferred to Legal.
partners, employees, and other data subjects. To learn more about privacy at
Cisco, please visit the Privacy Center of Excellence intranet page.
Employees must also refrain from using or sharing with Cisco any confidential, proprietary
information belonging to former employers, unless the former employer, or the rights to the
information, have been acquired by Cisco.
• Security & Trust Organization (S&TO)
• Trust Center
• Information Security
• Privacy Center of Excellence
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 14I Avoid Conflicts of Interest
Doing what’s right for Cisco is important. It means avoiding situations that create ― or appear to create ― a conflict between my personal benefit and
Cisco’s interest.
What’s a Conflict of Interest? Some common situations that can lead to a Conflict of Interest (COI)
include:
A conflict of interest occurs when an employee’s personal activities or relationships
interfere with his or her objectivity in doing what is best for the company. Conflicts of Work outside Cisco (COI Disclosure Tool)
interest, in fact or appearance, can also decrease shareholder value and expose Cisco to • Outside work that relates to your Cisco responsibilities or that negatively
legal liability and reputational harm. Cisco employees are expected to diligently avoid impacts your performance or work hours at Cisco
such conflicts. • Outside work involving a Cisco partner, customer, supplier, or potential candidate
for acquisition
Conflict of Interest
• Outside work involving a Cisco competitor is never allowed
Perceived or Actual
Personal relationships (COI Disclosure Tool)
• Family member works at Cisco in the same reporting hierarchy or in a position
where either of your roles has decision-making influence over the other
• Family member works for a Cisco competitor, partner, customer, supplier,
or potential candidate for acquisition in a way that relates to or could interfere with
your Cisco role
Company Outside Business Interests Personal • Engaging in any non-Cisco business relationships with someone in your
Interest and duties Family and Friends Interest or loyalties reporting hierarchy (e.g. borrow/lend money, rent property, or other personal
External Boards business dealing)
Investments
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 15External boards (COI Disclosure Tool) What if...
• Roles on For-profit boards of directors, technical advisory, or government boards
• Other industry and non-profit boards where Cisco is or may be a customer or
What if I perform some outside work as a paid consultant for a small tech
business partner (disclosure not required as long as not a Cisco customer or
company? Is this permitted? You may have a job outside of Cisco, as long
business partner related to your Cisco role and no use of Cisco resources)
as it does not interfere with your work hours or job performance with Cisco.
You may obtain the required approvals and it is not a competitor or potential
External investments (COI Disclosure Tool)
competitor of Cisco. In addition, any outside work that could result in the
• Investment in a private company that is a Cisco competitor, partner, customer,
development of inventions or other intellectual property related to Cisco’s
supplier, or potential candidate for acquisition
current or potential business would be subject to the Proprietary Information
• Investment in a public company if more than 1% of the company’s total shares
and Inventions Assignment (PIIA) Agreement.
• Investments by Family members that could be attributed to you
What if I am a project manager at Cisco tasked with engaging a vendor to
Other potential conflicts
deliver a specific business outcome. After working with numerous vendors
• Development of outside inventions or other intellectual property
for many years I realize that I can create my own supplier business and
• Speaking engagements, publications, endorsements
provide those same services to Cisco at an even better price by using more
• Anything else that gives the appearance of a conflict or that may cast you, Cisco, or
outsourced labor. Am I allowed to procure services on behalf of Cisco from
the other party in a negative light should be raised with the Ethics Office.
a company that I own? No. Being on both sides of a transaction creates a
Conflict of Interest where the employee can no longer exclusively represent
For help in assessing if your particular situation requires disclosure please use our Conflict
Cisco’s interest.
of Interest Decision Trees and SharePoint Page for FAQs.
What if a family member also works at Cisco? If you and your family
Further descriptions and required actions for the COI situations above are detailed in the
members work on different teams and you have no influence or decision-
Cisco Conflicts of Interest, External Boards, and Investments Policy. Special rules apply to
making authority over each other (on employment or any other work-related
certain Cisco named executives and the Cisco Board of Directors as outlined in the policy.
matters), then disclosure is not necessary. But if one of you is responsible
for managing the other (directly or indirectly), or you have potential influence
You should also keep in mind that any outside work that could result in the development of
over the other family member’s role or compensation, you should disclose
inventions or other intellectual property that is, or may become, related to Cisco’s current
using the COI Disclosure Tool. Familial relationships in the same reporting
or potential business would be subject to your Proprietary Information and Inventions
Assignment (PIIA) Agreement, which generally provides that all rights relating to any such
inventions belong to Cisco.
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 16chain are generally prohibited. If you wish to refer a family member for a
job at Cisco, mention your relationship and recuse yourself from any hiring
decision. Disclosure is also required if your family member works at an outside
company that could overlap with or relate to your role at Cisco (for example, IT
procurement role at a Cisco customer if you support that customer account).
What about investments or ownership in an outside company that does
business with Cisco or our customers/partners/vendors?
If you have (or a family member has) a role, ownership, or investment in a
company that relates to your responsibilities for Cisco, does business with
Cisco or with Cisco customers or partners with whom you might interact for
Cisco, may result in you receiving personal benefits, or could otherwise create
a perception of impropriety, then you must disclose using the COI Disclosure
Tool and recuse yourself from all involvement with that company.
· Conflict of Interest Disclosure Tool
If you are unsure whether your situation could be
a conflict, contact ethics@cisco.com.
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 17I Make Ethical Decisions when Giving and Receiving Gifts, Travel,
and Entertainment
Cisco encourages our employees to build relationships with customers, partners, service providers, vendors, and suppliers and recognizes that at times
this may involve providing meals, gifts, and entertainment. Sometimes, though, even the most well-intentioned offering can cross the line.
It is important when giving or receiving anything of value as part of an appropriate business Pre-Approval Requirements
relationship, that you comply with Cisco’s policies and all applicable laws, act transparently,
and avoid even the perception of unethical behavior. Familiarize yourself with the Gifts, - For gifts and entertainment given to Private Sector employees there is no pre-approval is
Travel, and Entertainment (GTE) Policy and GTE Decision Tree to better understand required in GTE Tool. However, you will need manager approval if it exceeds $250USD
Cisco’s standards around whether a potential offering is appropriate, whether it is of and VP approval if above $500USD.
reasonable value, and whether it requires disclosure and pre-approvals. - For Public sector (or state-owned) recipients, the thresholds depend on their
employer’s country:
GTE Guidelines US: Limits are very stringent.
With limited exceptions for high-level appointees and executives, the federal
· Consider whether it is reasonable
government follows the $0 rule State employees the limit is $0/$20 per gift per
and appropiate.
recipient or $50 per recipient per year based on local laws.
· Consider the perception of giving or
Non-US: Limit is $500 per recipient per gift and $1000 per recipient
receiving the gift.
per annum on cumulative spend per recipient. Any expense above this required
· Know your Customer’s Organization
GTE Disclosure.
- is it Public Sector which has much more
- Finally, all airfare and accommodation gifted to either Public or Private Sector must be
restrictive limits.
registered in the GTE tool.
· Comply with laws, regulations and policies,
and disclose when required prior
to purchasing anything (see Gifts Travel and
Entertainment Policy for requirements)
Contents 18
oD
t’noD
· Give cash, gift cards or other
cash equivalents
· Give or accept anything
of excessive value.
· Give anything of value to a government
official without prior approval.
· Use a third-party to give gifts
on our behalf.
· Give corporate sponsorships or
giveaways/promotions without
prior approval.
Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business ConductWhat if... What if I can’t tell whether a customer is a private or public sector
customer? The GTE Policy applies to recipients from both private or public
sector and state-owned entities. The appropriate, reasonable value and pre-
The value of the gift is less than $250 USD? Even if the value of the offering
approval standards still apply. Check out the GTE Disclosure Tool “Search
is less than $250 USD, it still may be subject to a lower threshold established
Pub-Sec” page to identify whether a customer is from a state-owned/public
by your management, regional or local laws, or the policies of the third-party.
sector entity to avoid a violation.
For example, a private company may have stricter requirements or if the
customer is a public sector US official some states have a $0 threshold for
all GTE related expenses (for more details see here) e.g. if the customer is
a public sector US official, or a private company with stricter requirements).
Regardless of value, the offering still needs to be appropriate (e.g., not given
For any other questions or concerns, contact
to unduly influence a business award or favor, be sure to check both with
corporate_compliance@cisco.com for assistance.
Cisco’s GTE policy and then with the potential recipient entity).
For gifts internally between Cisco employees,
refer to the Global Expense Policy and the Global
Where required by the policy, use the GTE Disclosure Tool before giving a
Recognition Policy.
gift, or the Receipt of Gifts Disclosure Tool before receiving a gift. When in
doubt, simply contact corporate_compliance@cisco.com before giving or
receiving anything of value.
What if I instruct a partner to give a gift to the customer instead of providing
• Receiving: Receipt of Gifts Disclosure Tool
it directly? The GTE Policy applies whether an offering is provided directly
• Giving: GTE Disclosure Tool
or indirectly (including through a third-party or an agent on behalf of a third-
• U.S. Public Sector Hospitality Guidelines
party) and whether using Cisco, third-party or personal funds. Cisco can also
• Gifts, Travel and Entertainment Policy
be held responsible if we are aware, or should have known, that a third-party
• Global Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy
is engaging in an improper activity.
• Global Anti-Corruption Policy for Cisco Partners
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 19I Prevent Corruption or Bribery
Cisco has zero tolerance for bribery and corruption. Corruption violates the public’s trust, threatens economic and social development, and hurts fair
trade. To combat corruption, most countries have enacted anti-corruption/anti-bribery laws and regulations.
These laws make it a crime to give, pay or promise “anything of value” (bribes) to: and Entertainment” section. Offers to pay for guest travel or hospitality must be made in
• influence an act or a decision to obtain, retain, and/or direct business, or accordance with the Global Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy.
• secure an improper advantage of any kind
Our partner’s behavior. Cisco works with business partners who share our values for
It is paramount to act with the utmost integrity, honesty, and transparency, and comply with transparency and honesty in all business dealings. We require that our business partners
the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the UK Bribery Act, and other regional and comply with our Anti-Corruption and Bribery policies and applicable laws. Cisco has
national anti-corruption laws. training available for its partners. If you engage or work with suppliers, you should be aware
that they are expected to abide by our Supplier Code of Conduct and Supplier Ethics
Therefore, at Cisco, our employees may not promise, offer, give or authorize, directly or Policy, as well as any relevant guiding principles, to help ensure compliance.
indirectly, a bribe or anything of value to ANYONE to attempt to improperly influence any
act or decision to obtain or retain business, or to secure any improper advantage for Cisco. Third parties (also called “intermediaries”) cannot be used to facilitate or hide bribery.
Suppliers, agents, consultants, distributors, and business partners cannot offer or receive
These values are so important to us, that we will forgo business opportunities rather than a bribe when working on Cisco’s behalf. Inducing, facilitating, or causing a third party to
pay bribes, and we will support our employees when faced with losing sales based on perform an act that violates the COBC and Cisco’s Anti-Corruption & Bribery policy,
refusal to pay bribes. is prohibited.
Check the Global Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy or contact ethics@cisco.com
for assistance.
Gifts, Travel, and Entertainment. Regarding acceptable versus prohibited business gifts
refer to the “I Make Ethical Decisions when Giving and Receiving Gifts, Travel,
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 20What if...
As an account manager, I am involved in a very competitive RFP with a very
significant customer and given my customer four tickets to an expensive
sporting event in hopes to win the business. Is that permissible? Cisco’s
policies prohibit you from giving anything of value in exchange for competitive
advantage, or in other words a “quid pro quo.”
A consultant we use to facilitate government relations in a particular locale
added a significant ‘facilitation’ fee to her charges to Cisco. I am concerned
she may intend to pass along this extra money to local officials. What should
I do? Cisco does not tolerate the bribing of government officials, either directly
or through a third party, and in fact, Cisco can be legally liable if there are “red
flags” that bribery may be occurring. If you suspect this consultant may pass
along this payment inappropriately, contact ethics@cisco.com or Legal.
Anti-Corruption:
• Global Anti-Corruption E-Learning
• Receiving: Receipt of Gifts Disclosure Tool
• Giving: GTE Disclosure Tool
• Gifts, Travel, and Entertainment Policy
• Cisco U.S. Public Sector
• U.S. Federal Sales (Ethics Code and Compliance Guide)
• U.S. Public Sector Hospitality Guidelines
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 21I Am Accurate and Ethical with Our Finances
As a Cisco employee, we all have an obligation to promote integrity throughout the organization, with responsibilities to stakeholders inside and outside
of Cisco. This includes being aware of and adhering to internal financial and accounting policies. The timely, accurate handling and reporting of financial
information is not only required by law, but it is also at the core of our commitment to do business honestly and ethically.
Responsibly and accurately manage Cisco finances. All Cisco employees are personally Protect Cisco when purchasing goods and services. Following our procurement process
responsible for any company-related funds that they control or spend. Company funds ensures you will maintain compliance. The Procurement Compliance Made Easy Guide will
must only be used for Cisco business purposes. Every employee must ensure we receive take you step-by-step through the process to help you understand your responsibilities
good value and maintain accurate and timely records for each expense. This includes as you find, order, receive, and pay for any indirect goods and services on behalf of Cisco
anything purchased from or expenses managed through third parties on behalf of Cisco. while complying with our policies. It’s your responsibility to do it right.
It is a violation of the COBC to hide, falsify, misrepresent, or alter documents or data
regarding the use of Cisco funds. Adhere to Cisco’s Procurement Policies. Cisco employees are required to comply with the
Indirect Procurement Policy when purchasing goods or services on behalf of Cisco. A
Follow Cisco’s expense reporting policies. Cisco employees are required to comply with purchase order must be approved before Cisco engages in any work with a vendor or
the Global Expense Policy and other related policies, such as Global Travel and Corporate supplier in order to ensure the spend has been pre-approved by management.
Card, Global Meetings & Events, Gifts, Travel and Entertainment (GTE), Procurement, etc.
Employees must submit all business expenses in approved tools where available: SAP In some situations, as outlined in our Indirect Procurement Policy, purchases are
Concur or Emerging Markets Expense Tool depending on the region). Cisco employees allowed through channels outside of a purchase order. In those cases, please utilize the
are required to accurately categorize, provide a valid receipt and submit all expenses in a Authorization of Expenditure Policy for approval guidance.
timely manner (within 30 days of incurring the expense). Mischaracterization of a business
transaction or creation of false or inaccurate documentation, such as claiming non- Expenses must be paid for or accrued in the period in which they are incurred. Invoices
business or unapproved related expenditures, is strictly prohibited. A reminder that as of must be recorded and accounted for in the quarter in which services were received.
FY21, Gift Card purchases for employees, contractors or third-party individuals are non- Likewise, accruals must be made in the period when the goods or services are received.
reimbursable and prohibited. Attempts to reallocate unused budget crossing quarters could present a parked fund
situation where Cisco’s funds are not accurately recorded and is strictly prohibited.
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 22Accurately record all sales transactions. The Global Bookings Policy defines the criteria What if...
for sales transactions to be recorded as booked and the Non-Standard Deal Policy sets
the processing and approval requirements for any non-standard sales terms. Exceptions to
What if when working on a tight timeline, I ask my supplier to begin work
and deviations from these or other revenue recognition controls are highly restricted and
even though the purchase order hasn’t been approved? A purchase order
must be approved by the appropriate Cisco governing body. Violations of these controls,
must be approved and in place before a vendor begins work.
such as unauthorized side commitments or “soft” bookings are a serious matter.
What if my manager is exerting pressure to “make the numbers work” and
A soft booking is an order from a partner that does not have a firm end user purchase
book a deal where we know the end user has only provided a letter of intent
order (PO). It is the seller’s responsibility to inform the partner that all orders must have
to the partner? This would be an example of a “soft order.” Your responsibility
a firm end user PO prior to the partner placing an order with Cisco. If the seller is aware
is to be honest and accurate. If you feel pressured to do otherwise, contact
that an order does not have a firm end user PO, they are required to report this to their
ethics@cisco.com, Legal or People & Communities. You may also contact the
sales finance team so the order can be evaluated and accurately recorded in our quarterly
Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. If you feel uncomfortable going
bookings numbers in accordance with the Global Bookings Policy. Anything short of a firm
through internal channels, you can call the multilingual EthicsLine anytime,
end user PO, such as, an end user letter of intent, memorandum of interest or any non-
night or day, worldwide.
binding document, are not sufficient for a partner to book an order with Cisco. Pressuring
a partner to book an order without an end user PO or allowing an order to be booked
Off-Book or “Parked” Funds. Cisco is required to properly maintain
knowing it does not have an end user PO and without notifying the Sales Finance team,
its books and records in order to accurately and completely reflect the
is a serious offense and violation of the Code of Business Conduct, which may result in
company’s transactions and financial position. Off-book funds are any
disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
funds inappropriately established or retained in a non-Cisco account where
the use of the funds continues to be directed by Cisco employees without
proper transparency, authorization, documented terms and conditions, and
appropriate accounting treatment on Cisco’s books and records in accordance
with the company’s policies. The establishment, retention, or use of off-book
funds and any attempt to circumvent or manipulate processes, systems,
or data associated with off-book funds are considered serious violations.
Off- Book funds are a violation of policy even if the funds are used to pay for
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 23business expenses. For example, you must not prepay a vendor in order to use Employees with financial reporting responsibilities.
the unexpended budget for work that is to be done in future quarters.
In addition to the COBC, our CEO, CFO, and all Finance department employees have
Discounting Practices. Cisco adheres to strict policies on discounting and
special obligations and are bound by the Financial Officer Code of Ethics. This governing
reviews each deal to ensure discounts are appropriate for each unique
Code includes providing information that is accurate, complete, objective, relevant, and
customer engagement. It’s considered a serious violation to structure a deal
understandable. These individuals must reinforce our company’s commitment to the fair
where the customer can choose only high discounted products. Such a
and timely reporting of Cisco’s financial results and condition. A violation, including failure
situation is called “cherry picking” and is not allowed because it can result
to report potential violations, of the Financial Officer Code of Ethics will be viewed as
in discount abuse and potential product diversion. Refer to your Finance
a severe disciplinary matter and may result in personnel action, including termination of
Controller or ethics@cisco.com if you believe you are being asked to structure
employment. If you believe that a violation has occurred, please contact Legal, ethics@
a deal in this way.
cisco.com, or the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. As with the COBC, it is
against the Cisco policy to retaliate against an employee for good-faith reporting of any
Product Diversion. The diversion of Cisco products into the gray market results
potential or actual Code violations.
in significant financial loss to Cisco each year. It is your responsibility to ensure
discounts requested are for appropriate competitive reasons and necessary
to win the business. Inflated discounts could result in product diversion to the
“gray market” causing damage to Cisco’s legitimate resellers and possible
What if...
service abuse. If you believe that products/services are being sold outside the
approved deal, or with an unregistered or suspicious reseller, contact Brand
What if a partner asks for two additional discount points on a deal that they
Protection and ethics@cisco.com. Any conflicts of interest with a Cisco reseller
intend to set aside for Cisco and the partner to use for future customer
should also be reported to ethics@cisco.com.
travel and marketing activities? Is that permissible? You should never submit
discount requests that are not necessary to win the business and creates
prohibited off-book funds, even if the funds are used for business purposes
the creation of these funds is considered a serious violation.
What if I suspect a deal is getting booked without a purchase order or
end-user commitment? In a direct sale, all deals must be accompanied by a
purchase order from the customer.
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 24If a sale is through a partner or reseller, it is the responsibility of the field
teams to inform the partner or reseller that all sales are final, and orders must
have valid end user purchase orders.
These sales records ensure that our finances are accurate and protect the
company from taking orders that do not meet the criteria for Cisco to accept
orders or soft orders. Inform your Sales Finance Controller immediately if
you are aware of orders booked without an end user purchase order so that
appropriate action can be taken. Refer to the Global Bookings Policy for the
required elements of a purchase order.
What if I am asked to include extra discounts in a deal to a partner or
customer where the discount is intended to be used for future Cisco spend
(Product, Services, Marketing Funds, Donations, or Software)? Cisco
employees should not direct or allow the use of funds provided to partners
or customers without proper transparency, authorization, documented terms
and conditions, and appropriate accounting treatment on Cisco’s books and
records. Refer to the Global Revenue Policy for Innovation and Incentive
Funds for the required treatment of these transactions.
Additional Resources:
• Accrued Liabilities Policy
• Indirect Procurement Policy
• Authorization of Expenditure Policy
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 25I Follow the Law
Being a good global corporate citizen includes following the laws and regulations around the world.
Which laws are reinforced by the COBC? a partner, a supplier, or a competitor is not in compliance with those laws, contact your
local Legal counsel or the Antitrust team at antitrust@cisco.com.
Market Competition and Doing Business Ethically
Insider Trading and Corporate Confidentiality
Antitrust and competition laws keep the marketplace thriving. Antitrust and competition
laws encourage competition in the marketplace so that consumers have more choices and
Do not trade on “inside” information. If you have material, non-public information relating
can benefit from lower prices. Antitrust and competition laws around the world prohibit
to Cisco or our business, you, nor any other person or entity acting on your behalf, may buy
business practices that reduce competition. Antitrust rules forbid agreements between
or sell Cisco securities. This also applies to trading in the securities of another company
competitors on the prices or other terms on which they will sell products or services
(i.e., Cisco customers, suppliers, vendors, subcontractors, acquisition targets, and other
or that divide customers or markets. Antitrust laws also set rules regarding exclusive
business partners, and at times, competitors) if you have material, non-public information
dealing, bundling and tying, below-cost pricing, preventing or discouraging resellers from
about that company obtained by virtue of your position at Cisco. The appearance of
discounting, fixing minimum resale prices, or (in a few countries) discriminating between
an improper transaction must be avoided. Trading patterns are closely monitored by
similarly situated resellers with respect to pricing and promotional payments.
government regulators, and Cisco fully cooperates with government investigations of
The most serious Antitrust violations, for example, agreements between competitors
potential illicit trading.
regarding pricing, can result in criminal penalties for the companies and the individuals
involved, including fines and imprisonment. Violation of other Antitrust rules can lead to
Even a “tip” is unlawful. Cisco employees are prohibited from tipping off others or passing
high fines and monetary damages, reputational damage, and the possibility of government
along inside information to friends or family that suggests the Cisco employee was trying to
monitoring of Cisco’s business decisions. Cisco is fully committed to competing fairly and
help someone make a profit or avoid a loss. Besides being a form of insider trading, tipping
complying with Antitrust and competition laws in every country where we do business. If
is also a serious breach of corporate confidentiality. For this reason, you should avoid
you have questions relating to Antitrust and competition laws, or if you believe that Cisco,
discussing sensitive information in public settings.
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 26Derivatives and hedging transactions are not permitted. Cisco employees are prohibited Copyrights
from trading in any Cisco derivative securities, such as put and call options, regardless of
whether the employee has material, non-public information. Cisco’s policy prohibits short Be sure that you have authorization before you use third-party copyrighted material. It
selling or engaging in any other forms of hedging transactions in Cisco securities, such is against the Third-Party Software Use and Distribution Policy — and, in fact, may be
as collars or forward sale contracts, because of the divergence it could create between unlawful to copy, reproduce, digitize, distribute, broadcast, use, or modify third-party
objectives of employees and other shareholders. copyrighted material in the development or as part of Cisco products, promotional
materials, written communications, blogs and other social media, unless you have a license
from the copyright holder covering your use. Certain copyrighted materials, such as works
Official Disclosures
in the “public domain,” may be used without authorization. A work generally falls into
the public domain if it was published prior to 1923. If you are planning to use third party
Information we disclose about our company must be full, fair, accurate, timely, and materials without permission, you should contact copyright@cisco.com for further review
understandable. It is critical that our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange and guidance, prior to use.
Commission and other governmental agencies are done properly. You may be called upon
to provide information for Cisco’s public reports. If so, verify the information is accurate, This requirement applies in all cases, even where the end product is for personal or Cisco
complete, objective, relevant, timely, and understandable to help ensure full, fair, accurate, internal use, and includes material like pictures, text, and videos, as well as software and
timely, and understandable disclosure in the reports and documents that we file with or source code (for example, an open source library downloaded from the web). It is also
submit to government agencies in other public communications. against our policy for employees to use Cisco facilities, equipment, and networks to make,
obtain or distribute unauthorized copies of third-party copyrighted material (including
acquiring or sharing third-party movies, TV programs, software and music through the
Individuals’ Political Contributions
internet and peer-to-peer sites). Improper use of copyrighted material can lead to civil and
criminal actions. If you have questions, please contact the Copyrights team.
Under United States election laws, some Board Members (CEO, Executive VP, Corporate
Secretary) and employees involved with sales to certain States, as well as employees
sitting on State or Local Government Boards may be required to obtain pre-approval from Export Regulations
the Cisco Government Affairs - Global Team before making certain kinds of campaign
contributions. For policies regarding use of company assets for political activities, refer to All employees are responsible for abiding by U.S. and International export laws. The
the I Use Resources Responsibly section. export of Cisco products, with appropriate licenses where required, is permissible to most
civilian/commercial end users located in all territories except embargoed destinations and
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 27countries designated as supporting terrorist activities as well as to sanctioned entities even We exercise our legal rights when necessary
when not located in embargoed destinations. For additional information on how you can
support Cisco’s compliance obligations, please visit the Legal Global Export Trade (GET) Cisco reserves the right to contact legal authorities when there is a reasonable belief that a
team website. crime has been committed by a current or former employee in connection with their
Cisco work.
Import Regulations
All employees are responsible for abiding by import laws. The import of products on behalf
If a local law conflicts with our COBC, we follow
of Cisco, with appropriate customs declarations and licenses, and adhering to destination
the local law; however, if a local business practice
customs regulations, Cisco policies and procedures, is permissible in most territories.
conflicts with our COBC, we follow our COBC. When
Exceptions include personal effects, shipments to embargoed destinations and countries
in doubt, ask for help.
designated as supporting terrorist activities. For additional information on how you can
support Cisco’s import compliance obligations, including additional country-specific
restrictions, please visit the Global Customs website.
What if...
Anti-Money Laundering Laws
Because of my role at Cisco, I become aware of Cisco’s intent to acquire a
Cisco and its subsidiaries are committed to participating in international efforts to
public company. Can I purchase shares of that public company before the
combat money laundering and the funding of terrorist and criminal activities. This is also
acquisition is publicly announced? No, because Cisco’s intent to acquire the
embedded in Cisco’s legal obligations across various jurisdictions. In some countries, Cisco
public company is material, non-public information that I learned by virtue of
employees are personally liable to contribute to the prevention of money laundering and
my position at Cisco.
they should note the importance of adhering to the Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and
Terrorist Financing policies and procedures where relevant. Some of Cisco’s obligations
in this regard include: maintaining AML policies and procedures and conducting customer
screening to ensure Cisco is not transacting with individuals or entities on U.S. and
international sanctions lists.
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 28A vendor presented a new product it plans to introduce soon. My team
agreed the product would not be useful for Cisco, but I think it will be a
real breakthrough for other industries. Can I buy stock in the vendor’s
company before the product launch? No, you may not buy this stock until
information about the new product is known to the public. Otherwise, it would
be considered insider trading, which is illegal.
What if I am forced to make a decision between obeying a local law and
complying with the COBC? The law always takes precedence over the
COBC. If in doubt, check with the Ethics Office or Legal for help. For any other
questions or concerns, contact ethics@cisco.com for assistance.
• Cisco Legal Global Export Trade Team
• Privacy Center of Excellence
• Privacy Team
• S&TO Education Center - Data Protection and
Privacy Education
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 29Our Commitment to Integrity
Customer experience and quality count. I respect Human Rights. Our Global Human Rights Policy, which we have maintained since
2012, is informed by international human rights frameworks, including the UN Universal
Declaration of Human Rights (UDPEOPLE & COMMUNITIES), the International Covenant
I am responsible for understanding how my role ultimately impacts the customer. I
on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural
will seek to achieve our customers’ business goals and desired outcomes, make their
Rights, the eight International Labor Organization (ILO) core labor conventions, and the UN
interactions with Cisco easier; and deliver world-class products, services & solutions, and
Global Compact. The policy reflects our commitment to apply the United Nations Guiding
the best customer experience in the technology industry.
Principles on Business and Human Rights, which clarify the corporate responsibility to
I agree to follow the Quality Policy and the Business Management System which describes
respect human rights. We regularly evaluate and address human rights issues within our
our commitment to quality and our customers. Please go to Policy and Process Central
business operations and in the communities in which we operate.
sites for more information.
We advocate the proper use of Cisco products and services. Cisco strongly supports
Corporate Social Responsibility. privacy, freedom of expression, and open communication on the internet. We believe
the freedom that comes from connecting, including access to information, is crucial to
protecting and advancing human rights.
I act in a manner consistent with our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility
(CSR). Our commitment to CSR starts at the top with our Board and senior leadership
Our goal in developing Information and Communication Technology systems is to expand
and is embedded throughout the organization. Cisco’s actions are grounded in our
access to information and promote innovation. To meet this objective, we build our
Conscious Culture, where trustworthiness and ethical conduct are expected and supported
products to open, global standards, which we believe are critical to overcoming censorship,
among our employees, suppliers, and business partners. From our culture of trust and
data protection and privacy, and keeping the world securely connected.
responsibility, to our strategic social investments, to the way we manage and support
We advocate for strong freedom of expression and privacy protections, which we believe
our global supply chain, to how we reduce our impact on the environment, our CSR and
are fundamental to successful business innovation and a thriving society.
business strategies are tightly integrated.
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 30The Manager’s Role.
Cisco’s managers have leadership responsibilities for setting a good example, encouraging
a Conscious Culture and an environment of open and honest communication without fear
of retaliation, and taking prompt action when ethical issues are brought to their attention.
They are expected to promote Cisco’s ethical culture and never direct employees to
achieve results that are in violation of Cisco policies, the COBC, or the law.
They also have approval responsibility for a variety of transactions on behalf of the
company. As a manager or manager’s proxy, you have important fiduciary responsibilities
to ensure that policy requirements are met.
• Corporate Social Responsibility
• Corporate Affairs
• Corporate Quality Policy
• Brand Protection
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 31Additional Resources
Cisco provides many resources to help you in ethical situations.
Ethics Office Cisco Audit Committee of the Board of Directors Additional certifications/training available
• Ethics Office Email: auditcommittee@external.cisco.com • Work with Government Officials in the U.S.
• Report Concerns/EthicsLine Mail: Cisco Systems, Audit Committee — Review the U.S. Public Sector Ethics Code
• Ethics Program 105 Serra Way, PMB #112
• Policy and Process Central Milpitas, CA 95035 • Work with U.S. K-12 Schools or U.S. Libraries
— Read the E-Rate Program Guidelines
Cisco HR (People & Communities) Security & Trust Organization
• hrprivacy@cisco.com • Security & Trust • Work in the Finance Department
• Conscious Culture • Data Protection Program — Review the Financial Officer Code of Ethics
Global Public Sector Compliance Office Privacy Team • Work in Global Sales/Marketing outside the U.S. or with
• publicsectorcompliance@cisco.com • Chief Privacy Office global accounts — complete the online Global Anti-
• Ask privacy@cisco.com Corruption and Bribery E-learning course.
General Counsel
• generalcounsel@cisco.com
Cisco Investor Relations
• External
• Global Analyst Relations
• Corporate Public Relations
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 32Ask/Report
You can confidentially contact the Ethics Office by:
Email: Ethics Office: ethics@cisco.com Phone: The multi-lingual EthicsLine is available 24 hours a Regular mail: Questions and concerns can also be
day, seven days a week, worldwide, with country-based, submitted — confidentially or anonymously — using
Online: Ethics WebForm, for Cisco employees, tollfree phone numbers. The EthicsLine is staffed by the following private mailbox (PMB):
non-employees, and anonymous reporting a leading, third-party reporting service. You have the
option to remain anonymous* when you call. However, Cisco Systems, Audit Committee
the investigation may be hindered if the investigator is 105 Serra Way, PMB #112, Milpitas, CA 95035
unable to contact you for further information. *Please note:
Some countries do not allow such concerns to be reported You can also contact the Audit Committee of the Board of
anonymously. Directors via email at: auditcommittee@external.cisco.com
Contents Cisco Systems, Inc. Code of Business Conduct 33We welcome input on any aspect of the Code of Business Conduct. Please send email comments to: cobc@cisco.com
Last Revision: March 2023
© 2007-2023 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved. Cisco, the Cisco logo, Cisco Systems, and the Cisco Systems logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cisco
Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the United States and certain other countries. All other trademarks mentioned in this document or website are the property of their
respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company.
This version of the Code of Business Conduct accompanied the FY24 Code Certification.