How We Win
Dell Technologies Code of ConductTable of contents
3 Message from our CEO 25 Innovation
26 We safeguard our confidential information
4 We win by following the code
29 We safeguard the confidential information of others
5 We show our commitment
31 We practice effective information lifecycle management
6 We speak up and protect those that do
32 We use information technology and other resources wisely
7 We leverage the code 33 We communicate responsibly
35 We promote a sustainable approach
8 We look to leaders to set the tone
36 R esults
9 We believe our culture and values are differentiators
37 We safeguard the integrity of financial statements
10 Customer
38 We avoid insider trading
11 We protect the privacy of customer personal information
39 We follow anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws
13 We are committed to quality, security and safety
41 We follow compliance with trade laws
in our solutions
43 We prevent theft and fraud
14 We compete fairly
44 We prevent money laundering and terrorist financing
15 We promote proper pricing and contracting
45 We travel and expense responsibly
16 We follow government contract regulations
46 Integrity
17 W inning together
47 We avoid conflicts of interest
18 We value diversity, equal opportunity and respect
49 We give and accept gifts and hospitality appropriately
19 We prevent harassment and discrimination
51 We engage in charitable contributions and activities
20 We respect human rights
53 We support political activity
21 We work safely and protect the environment
54 We raise issues and concerns
23 We ensure a non-violent workplace
55 We investigate and address concerns
24 We protect the privacy of team members’
personal information 56 We make values-based decisions
57 Additional resources
58 Resources for help
59 Waivers and amendments
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 2Message from
our CEO
Integrity matters. It matters to our customers, partners, colleagues and communities. And it
matters greatly to me.
We are a company of passionate over achievers, and we always have been. It’s one reason we’ve
survived and thrived in an industry defined by change.
But another reason is because we are equally passionate about how we do our work. We act with
integrity and in accordance with the letter and spirit of the law. We strive to make sound and
ethical choices that serve our customers, improve our communities, and inspire our team members.
Our Code of Conduct is effectively the global how-to guide for doing business at Dell Technologies,
and it is incumbent on all of us — all roles, all levels and everywhere we operate—to know it and
live it every day. Our leaders have a special responsibility to lead with integrity and in ways that
protect and enhance the reputation of our team and our company.
At Dell Technologies, integrity is not optional. It’s who we are. Thank you for following
our Code, living our values, and fulfilling our purpose.
Michael Dell
Chairman and CEO
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 3We win by following
the Code
Our Code of Conduct, “How We Win,” provides guidance on how to carry out our daily activities
across Dell Technologies in accordance with our culture and values, as well as in compliance with
the letter and spirit of all applicable laws. Our Code applies to all of us. Everyone must adhere to
the Dell Technologies’ Code, and the policies and standards which flow from our Code. This includes
officers, directors and employees of Dell Technologies and their subsidiaries (unless the subsidiary
has a separate and distinct Code of Conduct). Failure to do so may result in disciplinary action, up to
and including termination, in accordance with local law. Familiarize yourself with the Code, and the
policies and standards that apply to you in your role. Of course, our Code and policies can’t address
every possible situation, so it is up to you to use good judgment and seek help whenever you have
questions or aren’t sure about the right course of action. We also expect our contingent workers,
agents and all others acting on behalf of Dell Technologies to hold themselves to equally high standards.
Our Code is a global Code. Dell Technologies is based in the United States and thus must adhere to
all laws applicable to U.S. based corporations. We proudly employ team members and serve customers all
over the world. As a result, we must comply with both U.S. laws and the laws of all other countries
where we do business. In those rare circumstances where it appears that local law may conflict with
U.S. law, contact the Legal Department or Global Ethics & Compliance for guidance.
Our Code sets one consistent global standard. While we respect cultural differences, if a local
custom or business practice violates our Code, we must follow the Code. At the same time, if
something permitted or required by our Code violates local law, we must follow local law. Ultimately
we all adhere to one global standard: we win with integrity!
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 4We show our
commitment
We all need to show commitment to our culture and values by acknowledging that we’ve read,
understand and agree to abide by the Code. We are required to do this when we are hired and to
renew this commitment annually. Please note, the Code is not a contract of employment, and Dell
Technologies may interpret, modify or rescind some or all of the Code provisions, as well as related
policies and standards, at any time.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 5We speak up and protect
those that do
Speak up, report concerns.
Resources:
If you have an ethics concern or suspect that someone is behaving illegally or unethically, please speak
up. Talk to your leader, call the Ethics Helpline, submit an online report via the web-based Ethicsline, • Ethics Helpline (web or phone)
send an email to ethics@dell.com or use any of the other resources and reporting avenues described
• Global Ethics & Compliance site
in the Code or on the Global Ethics & Compliance intranet site. Dell Technologies does not tolerate
retaliation against anyone who initiates or participates in the ethics process, asks questions or raises
concerns in good faith. Team members and leaders are required to cooperate and be truthful in company
investigations and follow the instruction of the Legal Department, Human Resources and Global Ethics
& Compliance during such investigations.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 6We leverage
the Code
The Code isn’t something you read once. It’s a guide to putting our values into action. Everyone is
responsible for reading and understanding how the Code applies to them and what they do at Dell Resources:
Technologies. To help apply the information, each topic has a Key Takeaway. Links to frequently
• Global Ethics & Compliance site
asked questions, policies and tools are included where appropriate to provide additional information.
If you have questions about any topic in the Code, talk to your leader or contact Human Resources, the
Legal Department or Global Ethics & Compliance.
To supplement the general guidance of the Code, Dell Technologies has adopted more specific policies
and standards that apply globally, geographically or to specific business units, functions or departments.
These policies and standards can be found on the Global Ethics & Compliance intranet site.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 7We look to leaders
to set the tone
If you are a people manager, you have a special responsibility to lead with integrity. It is not enough
for you to behave legally and ethically yourself. You must also take affirmative steps to influence your Key takeaway:
team members to do the same. This requires a vocal and visible commitment to integrity. You must
Your team will follow your lead in matters
not only adhere to the law, our Code, policies and standards, but you also must promote adherence
of integrity, including adherence to our
and ethical behavior among your team members. This means you must:
Code, policies and standards and in how
• Be a positive role model. Actions speak louder than words, so let your actions demonstrate your belief
they behave. As a leader, you are held to
that although business goals are important, they can never be achieved at the cost of compliance
a higher standard.
with legal requirements and ethical principles. We can do both — we can win with integrity.
• Set the right tone. Be comfortable talking with your team members about the importance of
acting legally and ethically. Explain how our Code supports our purpose and values and ensures
our success. Find opportunities to review important concepts during your team meetings.
• Thoughtfully complete your own ethics and compliance training in a timely manner, and
make sure your team members do the same.
• Become familiar with the Code, policies and standards that apply to your organization. Adopt
and follow compliance processes designed to ensure compliance.
• Celebrate achievement. Recognize and reward team members whose behavior exemplifies our
value of integrity.
• Create an environment where team members know they can ask questions or raise concerns
without fear of reprisal. Be available to answer your team members’ questions and address their
concerns. Never retaliate against anyone who reports a good faith concern or cooperates with
internal investigations or audits. And don’t tolerate others who do.
• Provide appropriate supervision to ensure compliance with the Code. Please report behavior that
you know — or should know — is illegal or violates Dell Technologies’ Code, policies or standards.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 8We believe our culture and
values are differentiators
We know our culture matters in how we run the business, how we go to market and how we treat
each other. It describes what we care about, the things in which we’re willing to invest and the
rules that define us as a team. Our culture is defined by our values and made real every day by how
we work and lead.
We believe that what we expect from our people, how we support them in achieving it and how we
measure and reward them for doing so is fundamental to our success and the longevity of our culture.
Our values reflect what’s most important to us as a company and guide our decisions and actions. Our
values, which we call Culture Code, are:
Customers: We believe our customer relationships are the ultimate differentiator and the foundation
for our success.
Winning together: We believe in and value our people. We perform better, are smarter, and have
more fun working as a team than as individuals.
Innovation: We believe our ability to innovate and cultivate breakthrough thinking is an engine for
growth, success, and progress.
Results: We believe in being accountable to an exceptional standard of excellence and performance.
Integrity: We believe integrity must always govern our fierce desire to win.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 9Customer
We believe our customer relationships are the ultimate
differentiator and the foundation for our success.
Our customers and broader stakeholders are the reasons we exist and
they rely on us to listen and provide solutions that will help them succeed.
They expect us to operate with the highest ethical standards. To earn and
maintain their trust, we are committed to doing business fairly, honestly,
legally and ethically wherever we operate in the world.We protect the privacy of
customer personal information
Virtually every country regulates the collection, use, storage, disclosure, deletion and international
movement of personal information. When accessing or handling personal information, we must Key takeaway:
comply with applicable laws and regulations, contractual obligations, the Dell Technologies Code
We must protect and be intentional and
policies and voluntarily-adopted standards for protecting individuals’ personal information.
careful about the collection, access and
Personal Information Defined: Personal information includes general information about an individual disclosure of any customer personal
such as name, home address, email and IP address and other contact details. It also includes more
information we handle.
sensitive personal information that may be subject to additional specialized legal or contractual
obligations such as financial records, government issued identification numbers, credit scores,
credit card numbers, medical records, educational or employment records, sexual orientation,
race, family status and political or religious affiliations.
Resources:
Be Intentional and Careful with Personal Information: We use only responsible and lawful
• Global Data Privacy Policy
means to access, collect, use, share, transfer or store the personal information of others, and
• Dell Technologies Partner Code of
use personal information solely for legitimate business purposes.
Conduct
If your role requires you to have access to personal information, make sure you take steps to properly
protect it and ensure that your access or use is authorized by Dell Technologies.
We give clear notice to individuals of how we will use their personal information, and we respect
customers’ and prospective customers’ communication preferences. We keep personal information
secure in accordance with Dell Technologies security requirements. Additional specific safeguards
apply to customers’ payment card and other financial information.
Collecting, Using and Sharing Personal Information: Do not collect, use, access or share personal
information except as necessary for your job and the jobs of those with whom you share information.
If you or your team initiate an activity where personal information will be collected, consult with the
privacy manager supporting your area of the business or privacy@dell.com to determine whether a
privacy impact or security assessment is necessary. If you transfer personal information from one
country to another, even to share with a colleague or third party in another country, make sure the
transfer is an approved part of your job.
(Continued)
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 11 CustomerWe protect the privacy of
customer personal information
(Continued)
We must respect individuals’ interests in their own personal information. Should you get an inquiry
from an individual regarding information we hold on that person, you should handle that request in
accordance with Dell Technologies policy. If you have any questions in regard to such policy, forward
your inquiry to the Privacy team at privacy@dell.com.
When authorized to dispose of personal information of another, be certain to do so responsibly and
in accordance with Dell Technologies policies and standards.
Third Parties: Our business partners must share our commitment to protecting and appropriately
using personal information. Before sharing personal information with any business partner, be sure
the partner has executed the appropriate contracts, memorializing their commitment to following
the law and adhering to Dell Technologies’ policies and standards. For more information regarding
working with our channel partners, see DellEMC’s Partner Code of Conduct provisions on protecting
and securing customer and team member personal information.
Q&A:
Q: We have a great new product we know is going to be a big hit and want to tell people about it. We
have engaged a marketing vendor who has a list of email addresses of prospective customers.
Can we use the list for our marketing campaign to get the word out?
A: M aybe. It depends on the applicable legal requirements. Most countries have rules about whether
and how email addresses can be collected, whether and what type of consent is needed from
customers to receive email and when and how you can use emails for marketing purposes. Reach
out to the Legal Department or Privacy team for guidance at privacy@dell.com.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 12 CustomerWe are committed to quality,
security and safety in our solutions
Dell Technologies has a Quality Policy that focuses on earning our customers’ trust and loyalty by:
• Listening to, learning from and responding to our customers Key takeaway:
• Delivering products, services and solutions that consistently meet expectations All of our products must be safe,
for quality, value and customer experience secure and dependable, and must
• Driving continual process, product and service improvements meet all applicable legal and regulatory
requirements, as well as the quality
• Using Net Promoter Score® to measure customer satisfaction,
standards as set forth in our
trust and loyalty
Quality Policy.
We are committed to compliance with the laws and regulations in each country into which our products
are shipped. Our products are designed and tested to meet or exceed the appropriate worldwide
standards. Dell Technologies complies with environmental regulations and laws, and takes every
opportunity to minimize harmful impacts on our planet. To ensure this commitment is met and also
Resources:
help us continuously improve, we engage in regular self-assessments and third-party audits. We
• Product Regulatory Compliance Policy
also have systematic processes in place to investigate all credible good faith reports of suspected
safety and security issues and take appropriate corrective action when necessary or prudent, including • Quality Policy
notification to the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission and similar agencies in other countries.
If you have questions or concerns about the safety, security or compliance of a Dell Technologies
product, contact the Product Compliance Team.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 13 CustomerWe compete
fairly
Virtually all countries have laws prohibiting or regulating transactions and relationships that could
have the purpose or effect of limiting competition. We must compete fairly and vigorously and in full Key takeaway:
compliance with these laws. Any violation of these laws may result in discipline and could result in civil
We believe that a free and competitive
or criminal penalties for you and Dell Technologies.
market serves our customers best.
The following types of arrangements are or could be viewed as anti-competitive and can never be Competition laws are complex. Consult
discussed or entered into without advance, express written consent from the Legal Department:
the Legal Department before entering
into any discussions with competitors,
• agreements to fix or control prices;
customers, resellers or suppliers about
• agreements not to compete for certain business or bids, or agreements
agreements or arrangements, whether
with competitors on the terms of any bids;
in writing, oral or implied, that could
• agreements between companies, whether competitors or not, to not hire
have the effect of limiting competition
or solicit employees or to set employee compensation;
or that could be perceived as having
• boycotting specified suppliers or customers; such an effect.
• agreements to divide or allocate markets or customers;
• limiting the production or sale of certain product lines;
• tying or bundling certain products in a sale, or
Resources:
• any other agreements that would have the effect of limiting competition.
• Global Competition Law Policy
Be especially careful when interacting with competitors in connection with benchmarking, industry
associations, standards setting bodies or while attending seminars or conventions. To avoid even the
appearance of an agreement, avoid discussing with competitors such things as prices, terms of sale,
territories, customers, bids, volumes, costs, profits, market share, salaries, hiring practices, distribution
methods, relationships with suppliers or non-public information about product or services.
Competition laws are complex. Always consult with your manager and the Legal Department before
entering into any discussions with competitors, customers, resellers or suppliers about agreements
or arrangements, whether in writing, oral or implied, that could have the effect of limiting competition
or that could be perceived as having such an effect.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 14 CustomerWe promote proper
pricing and contracting
To ensure compliance with legal, accounting and financial reporting requirements, and to protect
Dell Technologies’ assets from fraud, waste and abuse, Dell Technologies has established policies, Key takeaway:
standards, procedures and controls governing the negotiation and approval of contracts between
We must adhere to our established
Dell Technologies and its customers, suppliers, business partners and other stakeholders.
policies, standards, procedures and
Authority to enter into or sign contracts on behalf of Dell Technologies’ has been delegated to certain controls governing the negotiation
team members depending on the nature, scope and financial value of the contract involved. If you
and approval of contracts.
are involved in negotiating on behalf of Dell Technologies make sure you understand and follow these
contracting policies, act only within the authority delegated to you under those policies and related
signature authority matrices, and ensure that all necessary approvals from the Finance, Accounting,
Global Procurement, Contracts Management and Legal Departments have been obtained.
Q&A:
Q: A systems integrator (SI) placed an order for 50 desktops for an end user. The order has been
approved and downloaded and is in the process of being shipped. The SI just contacted me and
said he is concerned his customer might not be able to pay. I don’t want to cancel the order so I
told him I would help him find other buyers for the systems if that happens. Is this OK?
A: N o, not unless you negotiate a formal amendment to the original order and obtain all the necessary
approvals from Legal, Finance and Accounting. If you fail to take these steps, your oral agreement
is an impermissible “side letter” or “unauthorized commitment” and it changes the terms of the
original order which could affect when the company is able to recognize the revenue from the sale.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 15 CustomerWe follow government
contract regulations
We always follow the rules: If you are involved with public customers you must ensure you
understand and comply with all applicable rules. Likewise, you must be diligent in requiring that Key takeaway:
consultants, resellers, suppliers or other business partners providing goods or services in connection
Contracts with government customers,
with government or publicly-funded contracts meet all qualification and performance standards
or commercial transactions financed in
and requirements. The consequences of non-compliance are serious.
whole or in part with public funds, have
We secure business the right way: Information submitted in connection with bids or tenders for
additional requirements.
government contracts must be current, accurate and complete. We never offer bribes, kickbacks or
preferential treatment in connection with a government contract. With limited exceptions (which
must be pre-approved in writing by the Legal Department), we are also prohibited from providing
anything of monetary value to government employees or their family members. This includes gifts,
Resources:
hospitality, travel, lodging, services, discounts and meals.
• Code of Conduct Addendum for
For additional guidance regarding sales to the U.S. Government, please see our Code of Conduct
Dell Technologies' Government
Addendum for Dell Technologies’ Government Contracting Operations.
Contracting Operations
Q&A:
Q: I noticed that one of our subcontractors billed a government customer for a USD $10,000 server
that was not part of their order. Could this be fraud? Should I just let the subcontractor worry
about it?
A: While this may or may not constitute fraud, you must not ignore suspicious activity relating
to government contracts. Report the matter immediately using any of available internal
reporting avenues.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 16 CustomerWinning Together
We believe in and value our people. We perform better, are smarter,
and have more fun working as a team than as individuals.
Team member relationships and collaboration drive our business success.
We nurture those relationships by seeking out and welcoming diversity,
being open and honest in our interactions, and creating an environment of
collaboration and inclusion. We treat everyone with dignity and respect,
and comply with all laws relating to employment rights and working
conditions in the countries where our team members live and work.We value diversity, equal
opportunity and respect
We are committed to diversity, equality, and providing a safe and productive environment that fosters
open dialogue and the free expression of ideas, free of harassment, discrimination and hostile Key takeaway:
conduct. We recognize a shared responsibility to create and maintain that environment for the
Dell Technologies is committed to
benefit of all.
diversity, equality, and providing a safe
We promote equal opportunities and fair treatment for all team members, customers, business and productive work environment that
partners and other stakeholders, regardless of race, color, religion or belief, creed, national, social
fosters open dialogue and the free
or ethnic origin, sex (including pregnancy), age, physical, mental or sensory disability, HIV Status,
expression of ideas, free of harassment,
sexual orientation, gender identity and/or expression, marital, civil union or domestic partnership
discrimination and hostile conduct.
status, past or present military service, family medical history or genetic information, family or
parental status, protected veteran status, citizenship status when otherwise legally able to work
or any other status protected by the laws or regulations in the locations where we operate. We
provide equal employment opportunity to everyone who is legally authorized to work in the applicable
Resources:
country and we provide reasonable accommodations to individuals with disabilities.
• Global Diversity & Equal Employment
All team members are expected to report suspected discrimination promptly and never retaliate
Opportunity Policy
against anyone who raises a good faith concern that unlawful discrimination has occurred. Our
commitment to these principles is essential to our success.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 18 Winning TogetherWe prevent harassment
and discrimination
We treat everyone — team members, customers, business partners and other stakeholders — with
dignity and respect. We must all be able to do our jobs in a safe and respectful environment without Key takeaway:
the distractions and disruptions caused by offensive, unprofessional or inappropriate behavior in
All team members should be able to
the workplace.
do their jobs in a safe and respectful
Harassment can include actions, language, written materials or objects that are directed or used in environment without fear of harassment.
a way that undermines or interferes with a person’s work performance, or creates an intimidating,
Harassment is prohibited and will not
hostile or offensive work environment. We never target anyone for negative treatment on the basis
be tolerated.
of race, color, religion or belief, creed, national, social or ethnic origin, sex (including pregnancy),
age, physical, mental or sensory disability, HIV Status, sexual orientation, gender identity and/or
expression, marital, civil union or domestic partnership status, past or present military service, family
medical history or genetic information, family or parental status, protected veteran status, citizenship
Resources:
status when otherwise legally able to work or any other status protected by the laws or regulations in
the locations where we operate. • Global Workplace Anti-Harassment Policy
All forms of harassing conduct are prohibited at Dell Technologies, including without limitation:
• unwanted sexual advances, invitations or comments;
• visual displays such as derogatory or sexually-oriented pictures or gestures;
• physical conduct including assault or unwanted touching; or
• threats or demands to submit to sexual requests as a condition of employment
or to avoid negative consequences.
All team members are expected to report suspected harassing conduct promptly and never retaliate
against anyone who raises a good faith concern that unlawful harassment has occurred.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 19 Winning TogetherWe respect
human rights
Dell Technologies has programs in place to ensure respect for human rights of all team members,
as well as people outside of our organization who are impacted by our value chain, such as Key takeaway:
workers in our supply chain or business partners. One such program is demonstrated conformance
Dell Technologies respects the
to the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct. This includes criteria such as
fundamental human rights of all persons
appropriate wages, working hours, working conditions, prevention of forced labor or child labor and
health and safety, among others. in our value chain.
If you suspect that your or another’s rights are at risk, or are being asked to conduct business in a
way that could violate another person’s fundamental human rights, we encourage you to speak up.
Resources:
• RBA Code of Conduct
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 20 Winning TogetherWe work safely and
protect the environment
You are expected to perform your work in full compliance with all applicable health, safety and
environmental laws and regulations and Dell Technologies global and local Environmental Health & Key takeaway:
Safety (EHS) requirements. This requirement applies whether you are working at a Dell Technologies
Team members are expected to
site, a customer site or a remote location. In addition, you must complete all EHS training as may
perform their work in full compliance
be required.
with all applicable health, safety and
Additionally, alcohol, illegal drugs and controlled substances can adversely affect safety, productivity,
environmental laws and regulations
attitude, reliability and judgment. With the exception of lawful, moderate and prudent alcohol
and Dell Technologies global and
consumption during legitimate business entertainment, you are prohibited from consuming or being
local Environmental Health & Safety
under the influence of alcohol, or possessing, distributing or being under the influence of illegal
(EHS) requirements.
drugs while engaging in Dell Technologies business.
You must report all accidents, injuries, unsafe work conditions, releases to the environment
and other EHS concerns immediately to your supervisor, and to others as described in the Resources:
applicable procedures.
• Global Policy on Alcohol and Other
If you hire and/or procure contractor or business partner work, you must ensure that each contractor Controlled Substances
and partner has an EHS program appropriate to the type of work to be performed, is made aware
• Global Workplace, Environment &
of other potential hazards in the work area, and follows Dell Technologies’ contractor safety and
Facilities site
environmental requirements. If you work at customer or supplier/partner locations, you must follow
the stricter of Dell Technologies’ or the customer or supplier/partner’s EHS requirements.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 21 Winning TogetherQ & A
Q: How can my team learn about the EHS requirements that apply to my workplace?
A: Refer to the Global Workplace, Environment & Facilities site referenced in the
Resources of this section.
Q: I install and service equipment at customer facilities. Do I follow Dell Technologies’
or the customer’s safety rules?
A: Both. Dell Technologies requires you to follow the stricter of each requirement.
Q: My leader has suggested adopting a practice that will save time but poses a potential
safety risk. What should I do?
A: Never compromise your safety or the safety of your team members or others. Report
the matter to another leader or use the other available reporting avenues.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 22 Winning TogetherWe ensure a
non-violent workplace
A non-violent workplace starts with being polite and respectful at all times. If you disagree with a
team member or other person at work, try to resolve it calmly. Never bully, threaten, intimidate or Key takeaway:
harm another person or their property through verbal behavior (written or oral) or non-verbal
A workplace free of violence, weapons
behavior (such as gestures or expressions).
and other disruptive behavior keeps team
Unless authorized by law or Dell Technologies policy, you may not possess, conceal or use weapons, members safe.
including firearms, knives, clubs, ammunition, explosives or other devices that are primarily used to
inflict injury (including recreational weapons such as hunting rifles or crossbows, toy weapons or
replicas that can easily be viewed by most people to be real or authentic) while on Dell Technologies
property or when conducting Dell Technologies business. This prohibition does not apply to knives
or other tools which are required, permitted or provided by Dell Technologies as part of your job
assignment. This policy applies to anyone who enters Dell Technologies property, which includes
buildings, parking lots, walkways and any other property we own, lease or occupy.
Q&A:
Q: Can I bring my own gun to work if I have a license or concealed permit?
A: No. Dell Technologies policy prohibits the carrying of firearms in Dell Technologies
buildings or while conducting Dell Technologies business.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 23 Winning TogetherWe protect the privacy of team
members’ personal information
Each of us has the responsibility to safeguard team members’ personal information. We comply
with all applicable privacy and data protection laws in the countries where we operate. Key takeaway:
Consistent with local laws, Dell Technologies may collect personal information about team members We all have a responsibility to protect
to meet legal requirements or enable effective business operations. If your role requires that you team members’ personal information.
have access to team member personal information, make sure you take steps to properly secure it,
and that you access or use it only when authorized by Dell Technologies for legitimate business
needs and in accordance with applicable laws and Dell Technologies policies. Regardless of your role,
if you gain access to a team member’s personal information or other private data, always take care
Resources:
to keep it secure. Never share it with anyone — inside or outside of Dell Technologies — without the
• Global Data Privacy Policy
team member’s permission except as necessary to meet legal or legitimate business requirements. If
this information comes to you inadvertently and/or is not required as a part of your role, it is expected
that you will inform Human Resources immediately.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 24 Winning TogetherInnovation
We believe our ability to innovate and cultivate
breakthrough thinking is an engine for growth,
success and progress.
As innovators we strive to think and create beyond our limits and work
with others to better our communities and our planet. We also utilize
innovative tools to create and protect our most valuable ideas.We safeguard our
confidential information
Dell Technologies confidential or proprietary information is a tremendously valuable asset that
differentiates us from our competitors and is protected by law and key agreements. Some of this Key takeaway:
information is also considered protectable trade secrets under the law. Everyone is responsible for the
Misusing or disclosing information that
protection of Dell Technologies confidential or proprietary information and trade secrets. Misusing
Dell Technologies considers confidential
or disclosing information that Dell Technologies considers confidential or proprietary or a trade secret,
whether during or after employment, is prohibited and is a violation of the Code of Conduct and your or proprietary, or a trade secret, whether
agreements. In certain circumstances, it may also be a violation of law. Inappropriate disclosure may during or after your employment, is
also result in serious consequences to you and Dell Technologies. Before you disclose or distribute prohibited and is a violation of the Code
any confidential information, senior management approval must be obtained and the appropriate terms of Conduct and your agreements with
of use established. This often requires the execution of a written confidentiality or nondisclosure Dell Technologies.
agreement, which restricts the use, disclosure or distribution of the information.
What is Dell Technologies confidential or proprietary information?
Dell Technologies confidential information is any information that is not publicly available and/or has
a level of sensitivity requiring increased levels of protection, management or disposition. Confidential Resources:
information includes (but is not limited to) information about our company, our products, nonpublic • Cybersecurity S.A.F.E. site
financial information, personal information about our team members, and third party information that has
been entrusted to us to protect, and is denoted by the Dell Technologies data classification standard.
What does safeguarding confidential information mean?
Both during your employment and thereafter, you are prohibited from using Dell Technologies
confidential or proprietary information for your own benefit or disclosing such information to
anyone outside of Dell Technologies, without express authorization, unless permitted to do so
by the Information Security Policy, found on the Cybersecurity S.A.F.E site. Any disclosure under
this policy must be in strict adherence to the requirements and protections set forth in that policy.
(Continued)
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 26 Innovation(Continued)
All Dell Technologies confidential or proprietary information must be returned when you terminate
employment with Dell Technologies. Any taking, downloading, disseminating or other prohibited use
or disclosure of Dell Technologies confidential or proprietary information could constitute theft of
Dell Technologies property. If such Dell Technologies confidential or proprietary information is deemed
a trade secret, additional laws may apply.
Additionally, you must take steps to prevent inadvertent disclosure of Dell Technologies confidential
or proprietary information. All security rules must be followed. In addition, you should not discuss any
non-public or confidential or proprietary information about Dell Technologies with outsiders, including
family and friends, and should not discuss such information in any public place, such as an elevator,
restaurant or airplane. Even within Dell Technologies, information should be shared with others only
on a “need to know” basis. For example, broadcast emails containing Dell Technologies confidential or
proprietary information should be avoided. You should not post any Dell Technologies confidential or
proprietary information when using social media tools such as blogs, internet chat boards or social
networking sites without prior express authorization. When away from Dell Technologies premises,
special care should be taken to protect Dell Technologies confidential or proprietary information, in
both tangible and electronic form, to prevent inadvertent disclosure in public places.
You are likely to meet, talk to or attend functions with individuals who work for Dell Technologies
competitors, partners, suppliers or customers. When you come into contact with such individuals,
even where the interaction seems innocent, you must be cautious about what you say. You should
never discuss Dell Technologies confidential or proprietary information with competitors and must
be careful to only discuss Dell Technologies confidential or proprietary information with customers,
partners or suppliers in adherence to the Technology Resources and Information Governance Policy
and with a fully executed Non-Disclosure Agreement between Dell Technologies and the other party.
In some cases Dell Technologies has special policies or procedures in connection with its business
relationships that require heightened attention to the safeguarding of Dell Technologies confidential
and proprietary information.
You should also report any attempts by outsiders to obtain Dell Technologies confidential or
proprietary information by contacting cybersecurity@dell.com.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 27 InnovationQ & A
Q: I need to e-mail a document containing sensitive personal information. How do I do that?
A: After obtaining senior management approval and executing the appropriate confidentiality or
nondisclosure agreement, the encrypted version of the data may be shared via e-mail. Dell
Technologies has several different approved encryption solutions for team members to use. See
key policies and any associated standards for classification of documents or emails for more
information. Related policies and standards can be found on the Cybersecurity S.A.F.E. site
referenced in Resources.
Q: I am leaving Dell Technologies. Can I download or copy business documents that I created
while at Dell Technologies? They are mine, right?
A: No. This information belongs to Dell Technologies and may be confidential or proprietary.
Downloading or copying documents when leaving Dell Technologies is a violation of this Code,
your agreements with Dell Technologies and is possibly illegal.
Q: Can I tell my manager or co-workers about a potential acquisition target Dell Technologies
is considering?
A: It depends. To protect the confidentiality of Dell Technologies’ strategic business plans and
ensure we can comply with all applicable legal requirements, Dell Technologies places tight
controls around our acquisition projects. Only certain essential team members are informed
of a potential acquisition and they are subject to strict nondisclosure obligations. Unless you
know your manager or co-worker is already part of the team working on that project, you
should check with the project manager before talking to your manager about it.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 28 InnovationWe safeguard the confidential
information of others
Dell Technologies competes vigorously, but fairly. We protect Dell Technologies’ intellectual property,
trade secrets and confidential or proprietary information, and we respect the rights of others to do Key takeaway:
the same. You may use publicly available information about Dell Technologies competitors or other
Team members may not unlawfully
companies, but may not unlawfully acquire or misuse the trade secrets or other confidential or
proprietary information of any third party. acquire or misuse the trade secrets
or other confidential or proprietary
Dell Technologies prohibits the use of any means, such as cash payments, favors or hiring a
information of any third party.
competitor’s employees, to acquire confidential or proprietary information of third parties. Even if
you receive information about another company through legitimate means, you need to determine
if the information is confidential or proprietary and how such information may be used. For example,
check written documents for labels that designate them as private or confidential. Before using
confidential information, approval from the Legal Department must be obtained and you must Resources:
establish the appropriate terms for its use. This may require the execution of a written confidentiality • Cybersecurity S.A.F.E. site
or nondisclosure agreement, which restricts the use, disclosure or distribution of the information.
Once you have received confidential information through legitimate means, you should use,
copy, disclose, modify and/or distribute it only in accordance with the terms of any relevant
confidentiality or nondisclosure agreement. You must also abide by the lawful obligations you
have to your former employer(s). These obligations may include restrictions on the use and
disclosure of confidential information or solicitation of former colleagues to work at Dell
Technologies, or non-competition agreements.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 29 InnovationQ & A
Q: I recently came to Dell Technologies from a competitor. Can I tell my new sales team
about my former employer’s go-to-market strategy?
A: No. Your former employer would likely consider that information to be confidential
and/or proprietary.
Q: I received an email from a partner that contains a competitor’s confidential information.
Can I use the data?
A: No. Do not read, use or share those materials with anyone. Contact the Legal Department
for guidance.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 30 InnovationWe practice effective information
lifecycle management
You are required to adhere to Dell Technologies’ information lifecycle management policies and
standards. Certain Dell Technologies business, transactions and other information must be retained Key takeaway:
for a specific period of time in accordance with legal requirements. To adhere to those requirements,
Everyone is responsible for the
Dell Technologies has created a document retention schedule and a legal hold process. It is your
appropriate protection, management
responsibility to retain such information in accordance with applicable retention requirements and
store it in approved, protected electronic or physical storage locations. and disposition of Dell Technologies
information in accordance with this
Dell Technologies information that is not subject to a retention schedule or legal hold, or is subject to
Code, Dell Technologies policies and
a retention schedule or legal hold but can now be disposed of because the schedule allows it or the
standards and applicable law.
hold has been lifted, should be disposed of in a secure manner.
Resources:
• Cybersecurity S.A.F.E. site
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 31 InnovationWe use information technology
and other resources wisely
You may occasionally use Dell Technologies resources, including information technology resources,
for limited personal use, but this use must be appropriate and kept to a minimum. Inappropriate use Key takeaway:
includes, but is not limited to, engaging in illegal activity or viewing inappropriate material, including
While some personal use of Dell
adult or pornographic sites, hate sites or sites which would put the Dell Technologies brand at risk.
Technologies resources is permissible,
Dell Technologies resources should never be used excessively or to support secondary employment,
outside business ventures or personal political activities. excessive or inappropriate personal use
is prohibited.
Dell Technologies provides information technology resources to you for the purpose of performing
your role for the company. At all times, Dell Technologies retains ownership over the resources.
Consistent with local laws, Dell Technologies reserves the right to monitor and review the use of
its resources and to access all data on its resources, including its information technology resources.
Where permitted by local law, your use of the resources constitutes consent to such monitoring
and review including when utilizing encryption, which Dell Technologies reserves the right to decrypt
as part of their monitoring efforts.
Everyone has an obligation to keep our information technology resources safe from viruses, malicious
software programs and intrusion attempts by following all information security policies and never
tampering with or disabling the Dell Technologies managed security software on a system. You are
responsible for all activity performed with your individually-assigned user ID and your assigned IT
resources. Ensure that all software and hardware purchases and agreements are approved by the
Information Technology Department. If you have access to customer information technology
resources, you should follow policies and procedures relating to the use of information technology
resources and to information security as directed by the customer.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 32 InnovationWe communicate
responsibly
Communicating Responsibly:
We should always communicate in ways that demonstrate our values, further our purpose and Key takeaway:
enhance our reputation and brand. You must avoid offensive, inflammatory or aggressive language
We should always communicate in ways
when communicating in connection with your role at Dell Technologies, as well as anything that
that support Dell Technologies’ business,
would embarrass or disparage Dell Technologies. Be truthful and accurate. Do not send emails to
people who do not have a legitimate need to receive them. values and purpose, and enhances our
reputation and brand. Public statements
Unless explicitly authorized to speak on behalf of Dell Technologies, you must make it clear that
on behalf of Dell Technologies are only
your personal views are yours alone and do not reflect Dell Technologies’ views or represent an
permitted by authorized individuals.
official company position. You must be careful not to disclose confidential or proprietary information
belonging to Dell Technologies or others except to those who have a legitimate need to know and
who are authorized to access the information.
Take care when using instant messaging (IM), texting, weblogs (“blogs”), chat, social media and Resources:
other avenues for electronic or online communication. Dell Technologies supports such open
• Global Social Media Policy
communications, as long as such communications are done legally and ethically. You must adhere
to the Dell Technologies Social Media Policy.
Speaking on Dell Technologies’ Behalf:
Dell Technologies’ public statements must be carefully managed to ensure accuracy, fairness
and compliance with all legal requirements, as well as to protect our reputation and ensure
consistency with our values and brand. Dell Technologies uses certain distribution channels —
such as press releases, media and analyst conferences and statements on DellTechnologies.com —
to communicate our company’s official position to the public. Use of these channels is limited
to authorized individuals and information shared must be valid, accurate and approved for public
release. Only authorized individuals can communicate the company’s official position on certain
topics such as financial performance, strategic business plans, legal matters and public policy
issues. Always engage Corporate Communications with questions related to speaking on behalf
of Dell Technologies.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 33 InnovationQ & A
We keep our promises:
Everything we tell customers and prospective customers about our products and services - in our
advertising, sales and marketing communications or otherwise - must be truthful, accurate,
complete and understandable.
Don't mislead customers by exaggeration, by omitting vital information or by advertising products,
features or services you are not confident we can deliver.
Make sure you comply with all internal requirements relating to the review and approval of
advertising and marketing communication materials. Seek guidance from the Legal Department
when you are unsure or have questions.
Q&A:
Q: A reporter called to ask me some questions on a news story about Dell Technologies on a topic
that I am very familiar with. How should I respond?
A: Unless you have been specifically authorized to speak about the topic on behalf of the
company, you should refer the reporter to Corporate Communications.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 34 InnovationWe promote a
sustainable approach
We are committed to driving human progress by putting our technology and expertise to work where
it can do the most good for people and the planet. It’s simply not enough to do “less bad.” We see Key takeaway:
technology as the key to unlocking regenerative solutions — ones that put more back into society,
Environmental responsibility is about
the environment and the global economy than they take out. Help us uphold this commitment by
incorporating sustainability into every
incorporating sustainable thinking into every aspect of what you do. This means working to design
products that utilize energy more efficiently, are made from more preferable materials or are easier aspect of what we do.
to safely recycle and recover materials from at the end of their useful life. It also means streamlining
our operations to minimize resource use.
Environmental responsibility is about more than creating an eco-friendly product or initiative. We
Resources:
partner with customers using our technology and expertise to innovate sustainable solutions that
benefit our communities and the planet. • Corporate Responsibility Report
Through your daily work and personal activities you have the ability to engage in actions that promote
the health of the planet.
Q&A:
Q: How do I get involved in sustainability activities in my location?
A: Join the Planet Employee Resource Group! As one of Dell Technologies’ largest ERGs, Planet
gives team members opportunities to volunteer and get involved in environmental activities
where they live and work.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 35 InnovationResults
We believe in being accountable to the exceptional
standard of excellence and performance.
We are committed to winning business based solely on the merits and
integrity of our products, people and solutions. We are dedicated to being
a trustworthy partner in the communities in which we work.We safeguard the integrity
of financial statements
The integrity of our financial statements and other regulatory filings is critical to the successful
operation of our business, and to maintaining the confidence and trust of our shareholders, Key takeaway:
customers, business partners and other stakeholders. All financial information about Dell Technologies
Our financial statements must always
filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or disclosed publicly, as well as all information
honestly and accurately reflect our
in statutory financial statements and tax filings must be accurate and complete, and must comply
with applicable accounting principles and legal requirements. To ensure this, only authorized Dell financial and operational performance.
Technologies team members, guided by the Legal Department, can make such filings.
We never misrepresent our financial or operational performance or otherwise knowingly compromise
the integrity of the company’s financial statements. We do not enter information in the company’s
books or records that intentionally hides, misleads or disguises the true nature of any financial or
non-financial transaction, result or balance, nor do we enter into any unauthorized agreements or
allow any activity that could lead to that result. We always follow all processes and controls designed
to ensure the accuracy of Dell Technologies’ assessment and reporting of its financial results.
Q&A:
Q: I believe a team member made a false statement to Dell Technologies’ independent auditor.
What should I do?
A: Report the matter immediately to the Legal Department or Global Ethics & Compliance at
ethics@dell.com. You may also notify Dell Technologies’ Chief Financial Officer at
chief_financial_officer@dell.com or Audit Committee at Board_of_Directors@dell.com.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 37 ResultsWe avoid
insider trading
You should never use or disclose material non-public information prior to its official public release.
Key takeaway:
What is material non-public information?
“Material non-public information” about a company is information that a reasonable shareholder Using material non-public information
would consider important in making a decision to buy or sell stock. Examples include yet-to-be- for personal financial gain, or sharing
announced financial or company performance information, mergers or acquisitions, supplier or it with others for their financial gain,
customer relationships, changes in senior executive management and new products.
is prohibited by company policy and
potentially illegal.
What is insider trading?
Insider trading occurs when an individual with knowledge of material non-public information about
a company uses it to gain profits or avoid losses in the stock market. You may have access to
“inside” information about our company or other companies such as VMware, SecureWorks,
current or potential suppliers, customers or acquisition targets. You are obligated to keep this Resources:
information confidential and you, your family members and individuals with whom you have a
• Securities Trading Policy
personal relationship must never use this kind of information to trade in any company’s securities
including VMware and SecureWorks. Likewise, you must never provide stock tips or share inside
information with any other person who might use it to trade stock. Even if you don’t intend for
someone to act on the information, sharing it would violate your confidentiality obligations to Dell
Technologies and could result in accusations of insider trading against you or Dell Technologies.
There are serious legal penalties for insider trading and tipping, including civil liabilities and criminal
sanctions (such as a possible jail sentence).
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 38 ResultsWe follow anti-bribery
and anti-corruption laws
Dell Technologies is committed to winning business only on the merits and integrity of its products
and solutions. We do not tolerate bribery or corruption, regardless of where we are located or where Key takeaway:
we do business. Bribery and corruption are forbidden with respect to both public and private entities,
Dell Technologies earns business
both by this Code and Dell Technologies policies and standards but also, in some countries, by law.
because we have the best products
Never provide or accept anything of value that could be perceived as a bribe. Regardless of local and solutions anywhere. We don’t win
practices or competitive intensity, you must avoid all activity which could constitute bribery or
business by bribing anyone, ever. Don’t
corruption or could give the appearance of bribery or corruption. This is particularly the case with
accept a bribe from anyone, ever. A bribe
employees and officials of governments, state-owned or controlled entities, political parties, and
is anything of value — such as cash,
international organizations. Although you must pay particular attention when dealing with public
hospitality, travel, gifts, loans, charitable
entities and their employees, many anti-corruption laws — and this Code and Dell Technologies
donations or job opportunities — offered
policies and standards — cover private entities and employees as well.
for an improper purpose or in order to
Complex rules govern the giving of gifts, hospitality and other business courtesies to government win or keep business.
officials and employees of governmental or quasi-governmental entities. What may be permissible
for commercial customers may be illegal when dealing with the government. All payments,
disbursements, rebates, marketing development funds, discounts, credits or other exchanges
of currency to a customer or third party must be for legitimate business purposes.
Resources:
You must fully comply with the anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws of the countries in which we • Global Anti-Corruption Policy
do business, and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) as Dell Technologies is based in the
United States. These laws apply to the actions of our company, our team members and third parties
who work on our behalf anywhere in the world.
Any questions related to the above should be directed to the Legal Department.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 39 ResultsQ & A
Q: A customer asked if I can help her daughter obtain a summer internship at Dell Technologies. The
customer also told me that, in exchange for securing the internship, the customer will ensure a
pending deal with Dell Technologies is executed. Is this a bribe?
A: Yes. A bribe is anything of value, including job opportunities, when offered for an improper purpose,
such as an attempt to secure a business transaction.
Q: What is the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act?
A: The FCPA is a U.S. federal law that makes it a crime for companies like Dell Technologies to bribe
foreign government officials. It is the most widely-enforced anti-bribery law and Dell Technologies,
and you, must abide by the FCPA since Dell Technologies is a U.S. based company. You must also
abide by the anti-corruption laws of every country in which Dell Technologies conducts business.
Q: In support of a government opportunity, a partner is requesting a discount that is above and
beyond what is customary for the given product and market. Is this concerning?
A: Yes. Excess margin, especially in connection with a public deal, is a red flag as it may be a means
for creating a slush fund — a side account maintained for unlawful purposes, such as paying a bribe.
You must take extra precautionary measures in this scenario and consult with Finance or Global
Ethics & Compliance.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 40 ResultsWe follow compliance
with trade laws
Trade laws provide that we cannot:
• export products, services, technology or software, or engage in prohibited sales to embargoed Key takeaway:
countries or to entities associated to those countries such as embassies or banks — even if the
Dell Technologies operates all over the
entity is located outside the embargoed country;
world and complies with applicable laws
• provide our products for prohibited end-uses (such as terrorist activities, missile technology regarding the import or export of goods,
and proliferation of nuclear, chemical or biological weapons);
services, software and technologies,
• provide our products to prohibited end-users (such as parties subject to comprehensive including U.S. economic and trade
OFAC sanctions); or sanctions laws and regulations, in every
• ship, transfer or release products, technology or software requiring an export license without country in which Dell Technologies
obtaining the appropriate authorization. conducts business.
When importing, we must exercise reasonable care in all customs matters to ensure that we
accurately classify, value, determine country of origin and specify all facts reportable to customs
authorities. We expect our partners to demonstrate this same commitment.
Resources:
• Global Trade Compliance Policy
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 41 ResultsQ & A
Q : A Dell Technologies reseller asked me whether it is permissible for Dell Technologies to ship its
product into an embargoed country. I’m not sure if Dell Technologies has authorization to do this.
What should I do?
A: Speak up! Contact Global Trade Compliance to raise your concern or question. With proper
authorization — and only with proper authorization — Dell Technologies may be able to support
a customer in a country subject to U.S. economic sanctions.
Q: A customer wants to place an order that is for the benefit of a military end-user in EMEA. I’m
having difficulty gathering more information about the particular order and cannot confirm who
the end-user is or what they intend to use the product for. What should I do?
A: Speak up! Contact Global Trade Compliance to raise your concern or question. Remember, Dell
Technologies cannot sell to individuals or entities if we know or suspect they will use the Dell
Technologies products, software, services or technologies for certain prohibited end-uses, such
as terrorist activities or the development, design, manufacture or production of rockets/missiles
or nuclear, chemical or biological weapons.
Q: Can we sell products or consulting services to the Iranian embassy in Germany, since it is located
in a non-embargoed country?
A: No. Even if the embargoed entity has a location based in a country that is not embargoed, it is
still prohibited. Selling products, services, software or other solutions are all prohibited, as it
is still a financial transaction between Dell Technologies and an embargoed country, regardless
of what is being purchased. Similarly, if a bank is headquartered in an embargoed country, yet
has a bank branch located elsewhere, we cannot sell to that bank branch in the non-embargoed
location. Any questions should be directed to Global Trade Compliance.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 42 ResultsWe prevent theft
and fraud
We all know that theft is taking something that doesn’t belong to you without permission. It can
include physically taking something like money or property, or it can be done through other means Key takeaway:
like forgery, embezzlement or fraud. Fraud is a type of theft by deception. It is making someone
Theft and fraud are crimes and will not
believe (by words or conduct or by concealing important information) something that isn’t true,
with the intent of having them take (or refrain from taking) some action that results in them be tolerated. When team members steal
suffering economic harm. or commit fraud in their work for Dell
Technologies, it damages our brand and
Anyone who engages in or assists others with theft or fraud in connection with their roles at Dell
tarnishes us all.
Technologies will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination and will also be
subject to prosecution. Help safeguard Dell Technologies’ assets and reputation by watching for any
kind of fraudulent activities against Dell Technologies, our team members, customers, shareholders,
business partners or other stakeholders and report suspicious activity immediately.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 43 ResultsWe prevent money laundering
and terrorist financing
We abide by all laws designed to deter criminal enterprise, and protect the national security of the
countries where we do business. Key takeaway:
Money laundering is the process by which funds generated from criminal activity such as drug Dell Technologies takes steps to prevent
trafficking are moved through legitimate businesses in order to hide their criminal origin. Terrorist illegal use of its business activities
financing refers to funding for terrorist activities and can come from legitimate or criminal sources.
for money laundering and terrorist
You must never knowingly facilitate either money laundering or terrorist financing, and must take
financing by identifying our customers,
steps to prevent inadvertent use of Dell Technologies’ business activities for these purposes. You
their business activity and the origin of
must be vigilant and exercise good judgment when dealing with customers or business partners.
their funds, and by reporting suspicious
Know who they are, what kind of business they are in, and where their funds come from. Immediately
report any unusual or suspicious activities or transactions such as attempted payment in cash or transactions.
from an unusual financing source, arrangements that involve the transfer of funds to or from countries
or entities not related to the transaction or customer, unusually complex deals that don’t reflect
a real business purpose or attempts to evade record-keeping or reporting requirements.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 44 ResultsWe travel and
expense responsibly
Dell Technologies funds may only be used for legitimate business purposes. You must follow company
policies regarding expense limits, the use of corporate credit cards, preferred travel vendors, necessary Key takeaway:
management approvals, receipts, expense reports and other travel-related matters. You are expected
Team members are expected to act
to truthfully, accurately and completely record travel and hospitality expenses.
in compliance with policies, and to
Reimbursement expense claims must be honest and accurate. We never use Dell Technologies truthfully, accurately and completely
funds for personal travel or entertainment, or to supplement personal income. While engaged in
record travel and hospitality expenses.
Dell Technologies business, you should not go to places that would negatively reflect on Dell
Technologies, or that are not in alignment with our values, such as a sexually-oriented business.
Expenses incurred at these establishments will not be reimbursed. These venues are not acceptable
for business entertainment even if expenses are not submitted for reimbursement.
Resources:
Consult the Global Travel & Expense Policy for more information about the rules and guidelines
• Global Travel & Expense Policy
regarding reimbursable expenses.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 45 ResultsIntegrity
We believe integrity must always
govern our fierce desire to win.
We believe that being a responsible corporate citizen helps us inspire
trust among our customers and other stakeholders and motivates team
members to make the right choices for our business, our communities and
our planet.We avoid conflicts
of interest
You must avoid any activity or personal interest that creates or appears to create a conflict between
your interests and the interests of Dell Technologies or that might impair, or appear to impair, your Key takeaway:
ability to perform work objectively and effectively.
A team member’s activities can,
Common areas of conflicts of interest intentionally or unintentionally, create
Personal relationships: You should not be involved in any employment-related decisions — such as a conflict of interest or an appearance
hiring, compensation, evaluation or promotion — regarding a family member or someone with whom of impropriety.
you have a romantic relationship.
Outside employment, business ventures and investments: Secondary employment, outside
business ventures or other commercial or financial activities must not take away from your
responsibilities to Dell Technologies. You must never engage in any outside employment or other Resources:
activity that competes with Dell Technologies, violates your confidentiality or other obligations to Dell • Global Conflicts of Interest Policy
Technologies, or that is illegal, immoral or would otherwise reflect negatively on Dell Technologies.
• Global Family, Romantic or Other
Contracting: We always select vendors and business partners who will serve Dell Technologies’ Relationships Policy
best interests. You must not participate in any decisions relating to current or potential business
relationships between Dell Technologies and your secondary employer, personal business
ventures or entities in which you or a relative has a significant financial investment or serve
in a governance position.
Outside board memberships and governance roles: Dell Technologies team members are not
permitted to serve on the boards of outside for-profit companies, whether publicly traded or private,
with the rare exception that members of Dell Technologies’ Executive Leadership Team and certain
Senior Vice Presidents may request to serve on a for-profit board in strict adherence to Dell
Technologies’ Global Conflicts of Interest Policy and with the approval of Dell Technologies’ Chief
Executive Officer. Service on the board of a non-profit entity is generally permitted but must also
adhere to Dell Technologies’ Global Conflicts of Interest Policy.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 47 IntegrityQ & A
Q: I have been asked to participate as a subject-matter expert for a paid research network. Is
that allowed?
A: No. Dell Technologies will not permit current team members to participate in that type of paid
outside engagement, as there is too much opportunity for Dell Technologies confidential information
to pass between parties. To ensure this is avoided, team members wishing to engage in outside
consulting activities should seek permission through Global Ethics & Compliance or the Legal
Department, to ensure that these opportunities are permissible.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 48 IntegrityWe give and accept gifts and
hospitality appropriately
Reasonable gifts, hospitality and other business courtesies may be appropriate to foster goodwill
but should never be used to influence your or a customer’s business decision or undermine the Key takeaway:
integrity of our business relationships.
Gifts and hospitality must be given and
Accepting Gifts: received in a responsible manner and
Although nominal gifts and business courtesies (but never cash or cash equivalents) are acceptable
may never be used to influence a
under certain limited circumstances, you must never solicit or accept tangible or intangible personal
business decision.
benefits of any kind that are given — expressly or implied — in exchange for securing Dell Technologies
business or providing favorable business terms, or that might create or give the appearance of
creating a sense of obligation on your or Dell Technologies’ part with regard to the giver. We never
accept gifts or hospitality that are illegal, immoral or would reflect negatively on Dell Technologies.
Resources:
Giving Gifts:
• Global Gifts & Hospitality Policy
Gifts may only be given as appropriate business courtesies to enhance relationships and never to
inappropriately influence business decisions. When appropriate to give gifts, you should only offer
gifts and hospitality to partners, customers or other third parties for legitimate business purposes
and when the gift, hospitality or business courtesy is reasonable in amount, in good taste and in
accordance with Dell Technologies’ Global Gifts and Hospitality Policy. Gifts, hospitality and business
courtesies may never be in the form of cash or cash equivalents and may only be given to those
individuals who are permitted to accept the gift under the laws and policies applicable to them.
More restrictive rules often apply when giving gifts to certain types of customers, like officials or
employees of governmental or quasi-governmental entities which can include certain healthcare,
utility or education customers. Always follow the most restrictive rules applicable and reach out to
local legal when in doubt.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 49 IntegrityQ & A
Q: I would like to provide complimentary passes to a government customer to Dell Technologies World. Is
this allowed?
A: P robably. Gifts or hospitality to government customers in connection with the demonstration
of Dell Technologies products and services may be permissible in certain geographies; however,
always check with Global Ethics & Compliance to make sure it is acceptable in this case via
ethics@dell.com
Q: Special rules apply when providing gifts and hospitality to government or quasi-governmental customers
also called “Public Customers.” Who is a government or quasi-governmental customer?
A: A “Public Customer” is defined in the Dell Technologies Global Gifts and Hospitality Policy.
Public Customers include employees of the U.S. or another countries’ central, state or
provincial governments, but also may include employees of educational institutions, hospitals
or any other government owned or government funded entity, such as oil companies or airlines.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 50 IntegrityWe engage in charitable
contributions and activities
Dell Technologies is proud of our team members’ generous spirit and encourages you to volunteer
your time, talents and energy to support charitable causes and non-profit organizations, provided Key takeaway:
they do not conflict with Dell Technologies’ interests or reflect negatively on Dell Technologies.
Dell Technologies makes charitable
The use of Dell Technologies resources for charitable activities, as well as time off for both Dell
Technologies sponsored community involvement programs and personal charitable activities, must contributions consistent with our giving
adhere to the Dell Giving Policy. goals and encourage team members
to support their communities through
Dell Technologies makes contributions only to certain qualified non-profit organizations. You may
appropriate volunteer activities.
receive requests for charitable contributions from Dell Technologies. Whether the request involves
donations of money, new or used computer equipment, services, software, event sponsorship or
anything else of value, all charitable contributions must be in compliance with applicable laws and
Dell Technologies’ Charitable Contribution Policy found on the Dell Giving site and approved in
advance by the Dell Technologies Giving team. Resources:
• Dell Giving site
• Facilities Service Request site
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 51 IntegrityQ & A
Q: Are floor walks allowed to raise money for a Dell Technologies Signature Program Partner?
A: Not during business hours as it will disrupt business. It is recommended that you do this during
break times and/or lunch. Approval is not needed during break and lunch time unless space and
setup approvals are required by Facilities.
Q: Where do I submit requests from organizations that want to utilize Dell Technologies and/or
Dell EMC logo?
A: For use of Dell Technologies logos by 3rd parties, please submit all requests to brand@dell.com
Q: Who do I contact to reserve Dell Technologies facilities for hosting an on-site event?
A: You will need to submit for approval to the facilities team for hosting any event on-site. You can
find more information on the Facilities Service Request site.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 52 IntegrityWe support
political activity
You are encouraged to be a responsible citizen and participate in civic and political activities, as
appropriate in your home country and community, provided your activities are lawful and respectful. Key takeaway:
Activities must be conducted on your own time and at your own expense. Dell Technologies funds
Team members must not communicate
or assets, including facilities, equipment or trademarks may not be used in connection with personal
political activities or interests. with public officials regarding Dell
Technologies-related policy matters or
You must use care not to give the impression that Dell Technologies supports or endorses any
claim to represent Dell Technologies with
candidate, campaign or policy issue with which you are personally involved. Follow all laws as
policy makers except as authorized or
they relate to the ability of corporations and individuals to make political contributions or
directed by the Government Affairs team.
engage in lobbying or other government communications and political campaign activities.
Dell Technologies does not make corporate political contributions, even when legal to do so. Whenever
you have a question about a Dell Technologies-related public policy or political matter, please contact
your Government Affairs team first.
Q&A:
Q: I have a good friend who is running for political office and has asked if I would endorse him at
a rally being held outside of business hours. Is that a problem?
A: No. Just be sure to make it clear that your endorsement is your own personal action and that
you are not speaking on behalf of Dell Technologies.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 53 IntegrityWe raise issues
and concerns
If you know of or suspect a violation of applicable laws or regulations, of this Code or any policy, or
suspect unethical, illegal or suspicious behavior, you should promptly report it. Key takeaway:
There are many ways for you to ask questions or raise concerns: If you know of or suspect a violation of
• your leader; applicable laws or regulations, this Code
or any policy, it is your responsibility to
• a member of management;
promptly report it.
• Human Resources;
• Legal Department;
• Global Ethics & Compliance; or
• Ethics Helpline via telephone or online via the Ethicsline to report your concern confidentially or Resources:
anonymously, where the law allows. • Ethics Helpline (web or phone)
Dell Technologies does not tolerate retaliation against anyone who reports suspected misconduct • Global Policy on Raising and
or assists with an investigation or audit in good faith. If you think you are being retaliated against, Investigating Potential Ethics and
or that an investigation is being conducted inappropriately, you should report it immediately using Compliance Violations & Anti-retaliation
any of the reporting avenues listed above.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 54 IntegrityWe investigate and
address concerns
Global Ethics & Compliance is responsible for overseeing internal investigations into suspected
ethics and compliance-related misconduct, under this Code and related policies and standards. You Key takeaway:
must not interfere in internal investigations or engage in your own fact-finding. Rather, you should
All investigations and any resulting
promptly raise ethics and compliance questions and cooperate fully in any company authorized
internal investigation. corrective action will be conducted in
compliance with local law, and applicable
All investigations and any resulting corrective action will be conducted in compliance with local
Dell Technologies policies and standards.
law, applicable Dell Technologies policies and standards and any required workers’ representative
consultation requirements. You are expected to cooperate in internal investigations, audits,
accounting reviews or directions from Dell Technologies’ lawyers in connection with lawsuits
or government proceedings. Dell Technologies takes all reasonable efforts to keep information
related to an investigation confidential and you must keep investigation information confidential and Resources:
not share such information beyond the investigation team unless specifically authorized in writing. • Ethics Helpline (web or phone)
Retaliating against any Dell Technology team member for reporting an ethics issue or participation • Global Policy on Raising and
in an authorized company investigation is strictly prohibited and will not be tolerated. Team members Investigating Potential Ethics and
engaging in such retaliatory behavior will be subject to discipline, up to and including termination. Compliance Violations & Anti-retaliation
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 55 IntegrityWe make
values-based decisions
The PULSE model provides a simple, clear structure when making challenging decisions.
Pause Use Look Select Explain
Pause to reflect on your Use our values, policies, Look at alternative Select the option that Explain your decision
point of view and legal considerations solutions fits best clearly and honestly
to come up with
Take a few minutes to In situations where there You are now in a position Take the time to explain
a solution
consider where you are are identifiable risks, to use your experience, your decision to the key
and your view of the Use our values, policies, competing values, training, and your stakeholders who will be
situation. Taking time to and the law to consider and fast moving issues, intuition. But the context affected by the decision.
reflect on the situation solutions. Ask yourself: never leap to the first (or for selecting the best The knowledge that you
seems obvious, but most obvious) decision. option is now based on a will be explaining your
• Is it legal?
obvious or not, we often Consider alternatives and clear perspective of the decision will inevitably
• Does it comply with
rush ahead when under think through the risks, situation, the inherent affect the decision you
our policies?
pressure and make snap values being applied risks, and a set of make. Transparency is
decisions based on • Does it reflect our (or not applied), and alternative solutions. a challenge we hold in
our goal to deal with values and ethical how your decision will mind while the PULSE
problems quickly. principles? effectively apply answers process unfolds.
from the previous step?
• Does it respect our
people, shareholders,
customers, partners,
communities,
and planet?
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 56 IntegrityAdditional
ResourcesReporting
options
Global Ethics & Compliance
Ethics@dell.com for inquiries (not anonymous).
Dell Technologies Ethicsline (phone or online reporting options)
Dell-ethicsline.com (anonymous where law allows)
Cybersecurity Office (suspected mishandling of information)
Cybersecurity@dell.com
Security Office
Security@dell.com
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors
Board_of_Directors@dell.com
Dell Technologies’ Chief Financial Officer
Chief_Financial_Officer@dell.com
Product Safety Escalations
Product_Safety_Escalations@dell.com
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 58Waivers and
amendments
Our Code has been approved by the Dell Technologies’ Board of Directors. Any substantive
amendments to the Code must be approved by the Board or an appropriate Board committee.
A request for a waiver of a provision of our Code for any Dell Technologies executive officer
or Board member must be submitted to Global Ethics & Compliance and approved by our
Board of Directors.
This version of the Dell Technologies Code of Conduct was approved by the Board of Directors
in September 2017.
How We Win: Dell Technologies Code of Conduct 59