1 Our Compass
To raise an Ethics and Compliance concern, contact the Ericsson Compliance Line2 Our Compass
A message from our
President and CEO
Succeeding in a complex world interests of Ericsson. If something is not in line with our core values or in We expect everyone to be comfortable speaking openly and challenging
At Ericsson, we are at the forefront of creating a world where limitless our best interests, we must walk away. each other, and the Ericsson speak up hotline is always there to raise
connectivity improves lives, redefines business, and pioneers a any concerns if anyone believes our ethical expectations as set out in our
sustainable future. Our position and the role we play comes with great I am singularly focused on making sure that Ericsson is well-positioned Compass are at risk. Let’s always remember that asking questions and
responsibility, and we do not take it lightly. for success for generations to come. But this requires that we all come challenging what is occurring also comes with responsibility. It is not just
together. We must ensure that mistakes of the past are not repeated in about raising issues and risks but also about constructively engaging and
We have built a tremendous global organization and are well positioned the future. To move effectively into the future, it is therefore necessary to putting forward solutions.
to thrive and succeed—with more than 100,000 diverse employees on understand and learn from the past.
six continents and we are continuing to grow well beyond our proud By following our Compass, we can be sure that our decisions and actions are
Swedish roots. To be a true industry leader, we must also be recognized We have often discussed the corrupt actions that led to our settlement ethical and that Ericsson is acting as a positive global force. Through this, we
as a global leader in how we conduct our business and how we operate with the US Department of Justice (DOJ) and the US Securities and will continue to earn respect and sustain trust, not only from our colleagues,
in the world. This leadership requires our collective focus, and it begins Exchange Commission (SEC). We have made great strides to address the customers, vendors, investors, banks, and partners but, importantly, from
with us having trust in ourselves, our colleagues, and the company: organizational weaknesses that allowed this misconduct to occur and society as a whole. We are each a guardian of Ericsson, and doing what is
thinking critically, using good judgment, and always acting with build a stronger company. Still, we have more to do, and this will be a right should always come first.
integrity. continuous journey well past the monitorship.
One of our core governance pillars, the Code of Business Ethics, sets Looking forward
out our expectations for our people and guides each of us as we make Our governance and our Compass I strongly believe that ethical leadership will give us a competitive advantage
decisions, manage risk, and work with our fellow employees, customers, A company, the size of Ericsson, needs clear rules of the road on how our and continue to make all of us proud to be part of Ericsson. We are not doing
partners, owners, and other stakeholders. employees should act and operate. Our Compass is a key component of this to check a box or simply to satisfy external expectations. We do what
our Core Governance Pillars which are being introduced to bring clarity to we do to become a stronger company and ensure success over the long term.
how we make decisions, ensure accountability and manage risk. Ultimately, operating at the highest standards and conducting business
Integrity and operational excellence responsibly with integrity is the only way we can drive real and positive
We operate in a complex business environment. Fierce competition, Another one of the Core Governance Pillars which has been introduced change. The future of our company depends on transforming our culture in a
geopolitical tensions, climate change, economic uncertainty, and and implemented over 2023 is our Material Group Risk Protocol and the way that makes us stronger, and we are all accountable for playing our part
conflicts in many parts of the world are now the norm. Business Risk Committee, which governs how we manage material risks. in that cultural transformation.
More information about other group governance pillars will be shared
As a founding principle at Ericsson, we consider access to connectivity to throughout the coming months. In the end, our success is, and always will be, because of our people. I believe
be a fundamental human need, and we aim to support this everywhere, we have the best people in the industry, and there is no other team better
as long as our people are safe and so long as we can operate according These pillars of governance form the foundation of how we operate equipped to tackle the challenges we face and capture the new opportunities
to our core values and in the best interest of Ericsson. together and bring the needed order, standards, and discipline to our in the future.
work. They are designed to support and facilitate our work together —
Our ability to achieve this goal and navigate the complexities around and not to replace our good and necessary human judgment and critical Let’s set our sights on the future. Together, we are writing the next chapter in
us hinges first and foremost on our people and our culture. We must be thinking. the book about Ericsson, which is built on industry leadership and leadership
optimistic and confident while committed to trust, transparency, open in how we conduct business. I know I can count on all of you!
communication, ethics, and good judgment. We must continue to embed Our long-term success is built on making good decisions, and this requires
this into our everyday way of working and be committed to operational keeping each other well informed, asking questions and challenging ideas, All the best,
excellence and integrity at all levels, enabling us to adapt, compete, and and thoroughly considering the facts and risks around a decision. Not
succeed. With our people acting accordingly, we will positively impact every decision will be perfect; there are outside factors that we do not Börje Ekholm
society—wherever we operate. always control, and problems will arise as the world around us comes into President & CEO
play. But we are in this together, and by taking the approach described
We must continue to focus on our customers, delivering high-quality above, moving forward thoughtfully, adapting, and evolving together, we
technologies and services. However, we always have to act in the best will succeed.3 Our Compass
Use our
Compass
Our Compass is your guide to Ericsson’s ethical
principles and expectations. It’s aligned to our values
of professionalism, respect and perseverance, which
enable us to lead with integrity. By referring to it often,
you can be confident that your actions and decisions
are in line with Ericsson’s requirements for ethical
business conduct.4 Our Compass
Always remember the 3 Ps
when you act for Ericsson
P 1 What is the P 2 What principles P 3 How will
purpose of should guide my action
my action? my action? be perceived?
• Is there a legitimate business • Is the action legal and • How would my action look
reason for this action? consistent with our Compass if it appeared on the news?
and steering documents?
• Is the action in Ericsson’s • Will my action negatively
best interests? • Is the action ethical and impact Ericsson’s reputation?
in line with our values?
• What risks could this action
carry? How can I mitigate them?55 OOuurr CCoommppaassss
Our Code, our Compass Our assets and intellectual property
Table of
1.1 Stay aware of Ericsson’s ethical expectations 07 4.1 Protect confidential information and intellectual property 22
Contents
1.2 Know your responsibilities when working for Ericsson 08 4.2 Use company information and assets responsibly 23
1.3 Raise ethics and compliance concerns 09 4.3 Protect personal data 24
4.4 Maintain proper financial controls and prevent fraud 25
Our people and workplace
4.5 Communicate responsibly 26
2.1 Treat everyone respectfully, inclusively and with dignity 11
Our social and environmental engagement
2.2 Provide just and favorable working conditions and respect trade union rights 12
2.3 Ensure health, safety and well-being 13 5.1 Promote the right to privacy and freedom of expression 28
2.4 Prohibit and prevent forced labor, human trafficking and child labor 14 5.2 Uphold our commitment to environmental sustainability 29
5.3 Empower and support local communities 30
Our business, customers and suppliers
3.1 Conduct business with integrity – and zero tolerance for corruption 16
3.2 Act in Ericsson’s best interest 17
3.3 Compete on the merits of our technologies and offerings 18
3.4 Engage only with third parties who share our commitment to integrity 19
3.5 Respect international trade and anti-money laundering laws 20
To raise an Ethics and Compliance concern, contact the Ericsson Compliance Line66 OOuurr CCoommppaassss
OOuurr CCooddee Our Code, We are committed to
Our people
conducting our business
Our business our Compass
ethically and responsibly
Our assets
Our engagement
– always.
1.1 Stay aware of Ericsson’s ethical expectations 07
1.2 Know your responsibilities when working for Ericsson 08
1.3 Raise ethics and compliance concerns 09
01
TToo rraaiissee aann EEtthhiiccss aanndd CCoommpplliiaannccee ccoonncceerrnn,, ccoonnttaacctt tthhee EErriiccssssoonn CCoommpplliiaannccee LLiinnee7 Our Compass 1.1
Our Code Stay aware of Ericsson’s
Our people
ethical expectations
Our business
Our assets
Our engagement
Our Compass sets out our Violations of our Compass can lead to disciplinary action,
including termination of employment – regardless of your position
company’s expectations for
in the company. At the same time, we understand that people
how we conduct business. sometimes make honest mistakes despite good intentions. If that
happens, or if you have a question or concern, be accountable,
transparent, and speak up.
The Code of Business Ethics is our Compass and one of Ericsson’s
core pillars of corporate governance. The Compass guides us If you’re unsure how our steering documents apply to you, please
to conduct our business professionally, respectfully and with do ask your line manager for guidance. You can also turn to the
integrity. relevant functions such as the People Function or Group Function
Legal Affairs & Compliance. For example, the Compliance Office,
The Compass applies not only to regular employees of Ericsson, the Compliance Consultation Desk, and the Ethics & Compliance
but also to any person over whom Ericsson controls the day-to- Portal offer advice and relevant approvals on ethics and
day work and members of the Board of Directors of all entities compliance matters.
directly or indirectly controlled by Ericsson. We require third
parties who work with Ericsson to adhere to the values contained
in our Compass by committing to our Code of Conduct for
Business Partners.
Learn more We are responsible for complying with all applicable laws and
regulations. In addition, we are required to adhere to our Compass
and all Ericsson steering documents applicable to us based on
Useful links our geography, job role, or the activity we are undertaking. Any
requirement in this document to comply with our Compass always
• Our company story
includes the requirement to comply with the applicable steering
• Ericsson on the Move
• EGMS App - PowerApps documents. Finally, if any of the requirements in our Compass
differ from legal requirements, you must always apply the more
demanding standard.
CoBE Relevant Documents:
• See section 1.1. of CoBE Relevant Documents We use technology, including artificial intelligence, in a
responsible, fair, and ethical way. This includes focusing on human
oversight to ensure safety, inclusiveness, transparency, data
privacy, accountability, and overall societal and environmental
wellbeing.
To raise an Ethics and Compliance concern, contact the Ericsson Compliance Line8 Our Compass 1.2
Our Code Know your responsibilities
Our people
when working for Ericsson
Our business
Our assets
Our engagement
We act with integrity Leaders and line managers must:
at all times.
• Encourage and support team members
to ask questions and talk to them about
challenging ethical situations
In line with our purpose and values, we must
act responsibly, with honesty and integrity • Ensure team members are properly trained
when we conduct business as representatives and know how to comply with our Compass
of Ericsson, no matter what role we are and steering documents
in. This means we must always act with
integrity, even if it means losing a business • Avoid putting pressure on teams at the risk
opportunity. In addition, the obligation to act of implicitly encouraging unethical conduct
with integrity requires each of us to raise a or breach of our steering documents
compliance concern if any of us knows of, or
suspects, violations of the law, our Compass, • Report potential misconduct and support
or our steering documents or have any other team members when they raise concerns
information that could put Ericsson or its
reputation at risk.
When requested, you must fully cooperate
Learn more
in any investigations, audits, or assessments
conducted by Ericsson or a legitimate third
Useful links party, including providing access to and never
destroying or altering work-related data,
• Compliance @ Ericsson
records, or communications wherever they
reside.
And if you are a manager, member of the
CoBE Relevant Documents:
Executive Team or member of the Board of
• See section 1.2. of CoBE Relevant Documents Directors, you have an especially important
role – you are responsible for driving a culture
of integrity and compliance!
To raise an Ethics and Compliance concern, contact the Ericsson Compliance Line9 Our Compass 1.3
Our Code Raise ethics and compliance
Our people
concerns
Our business
Our assets
Our engagement
We must all speak up if You will be protected from retaliation when
you raise a genuine compliance concern in
something doesn’t seem right.
good faith – we do not tolerate retaliation in
any form.
If something doesn’t seem right: If you’re a line manager or other trusted person
and someone raises a compliance concern
• Talk to your line manager or the superior of to you, you must report it to Group Function
your manager Legal Affairs & Compliance or the Ericsson
Compliance Line. Although it may be necessary
• Talk to someone in the People Function or to speak with the reporting person to better
Group Function Legal Affairs & Compliance, understand the nature of their concern before
or you report it, it’s important that you do not try
to carry out your own investigation because
• Contact the Ericsson Compliance Line. there could be complex legal issues involved.
(When using the Ericsson Compliance Line,
you can choose to remain anonymous Managers should feel empowered to resolve
where permitted by local law.) some matters, such as performance issues
and process non-adherence, but must raise
Learn more The Ericsson Compliance Line is hosted by compliance concerns about business ethics
an independent third party, which handles and misconduct.
all reports securely and confidentially. It is
Useful links available 24/7 to all internal and external You always have the right to raise concerns
stakeholders in over 60 languages. with your trade union or works council
• Reporting Compliance Concerns
representatives – but you must also report
We must speak up when we see or suspect potential violations of our Compass through
CoBE Relevant Documents:
breaches of our Compass. Failure to speak the proper Ericsson channels.
up can lead to disciplinary action. Your
• See section 1.3. of CoBE Relevant Documents
concerns will be assessed by the Allegation You are not required to waive your rights to
Management Office who may ask further participate in a legal process once you have
questions. They may be investigated by made a report. If you report a compliance
Corporate & Government Investigations or concern via Ericsson channels, you will not be
handled by other relevant functions. required to sign a non-disclosure agreement.
To raise an Ethics and Compliance concern, contact the Ericsson Compliance Line1100 OOuurr CCoommppaassss
Our Code Our people You can reach your full potential and thrive in an
O ur people
inclusive and supportive workplace. We respect the
Our business and workplace
dignity of every human being and work in accordance
Our assets
with all internationally recognized human rights
Our engagement
and labor rights, including those in the International
Bill of Human Rights and the International Labor
Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles
and Rights at Work.
2.1 Treat everyone respectfully, inclusively and with dignity 11
2.2 Provide just and favorable working conditions and respect trade union rights 12
2.3 Ensure health, safety and well-being 13
02
2.4 Prohibit and prevent forced labor, human trafficking and child labor 14
TToo rraaiissee aann EEtthhiiccss aanndd CCoommpplliiaannccee ccoonncceerrnn,, ccoonnttaacctt tthhee EErriiccssssoonn CCoommpplliiaannccee LLiinnee11 Our Compass 2.1
Our Code Treat everyone respectfully,
Our people
inclusively and with dignity
Our business
Our assets
Our engagement
We foster a supportive work We know that diversity makes us stronger as
a company. Having a diverse and inclusive
environment based on respect.
workplace helps ensure that we attract the
best global talent, foster innovation, and bring
greater value to our customers. We want
Treating our colleagues with respect, dignity, everyone to feel valued and included.
and inclusion brings out the best in everyone,
and it’s the right thing to do. At Ericsson, We must all contribute to ensuring Ericsson
ensuring the psychological safety of our is a place where everyone can grow and feel
employees is paramount and there is no room empowered – regardless of factors such
for harassment, threats, bullying or violence as their personal background, cognitive
against anyone. perspectives, or disability.
We do not tolerate any forms of harassment, You must:
discrimination, retaliation, threats or acts of
violence, including: • Recruit, reward, and promote people based
on merit
• Physical, oral, or written harassment
directed at employees or any third party • Prevent nepotism or discriminatory
Learn more in the line of work (whether at the office, practices
outside the office or online)
• Avoid any conduct that could make an
CoBE Relevant Documents: • Bullying, intimidation, hostility, humiliation, employee feel excluded or unwelcome. This
discrimination, or psychological applies within or outside working hours,
• See section 2.1. of CoBE Relevant Documents
mistreatment inside or outside Ericsson premises and
• Check with local People function during external events or business travel.
for local steering documents
• Offensive or disparaging remarks, jokes,
images, or name-calling
• Unwanted attention or physical contact or
other invasions of privacy or personal space
• Behavior intended to disturb or prevent
normal work activities
To raise an Ethics and Compliance concern, contact the Ericsson Compliance Line12 Our Compass 2.2
Our Code Provide just and favorable working
Our people
conditions and respect trade union rights
Our business
Our assets
Our engagement
We uphold everyone’s right You must respect all colleagues’ freedom of
association and right to collective bargaining,
to just, safe, and favorable
and not unlawfully limit these rights. You are
working conditions and to not permitted to treat anyone differently based
on their choice to join – or not join – a trade
form and join trade unions
union or similar organization and trade union
representatives must be able to communicate
and bargain collectively.
effectively with employees.
This includes:
• Receiving a written document in a language
you understand, outlining the basic terms
and conditions of your employment
• Fair and reasonable pay, and terms and
conditions, which at a minimum include a
living wage
• Adequate rest and leisure to support a
Learn more
healthy work life balance, including working
hours in accordance with international
standards
Useful links
• Business and Human Rights Statement • Forming or joining independent trade
• Respect for human rights
unions as well as collective bargaining.
CoBE Relevant Documents:
• See section 2.2. of CoBE Relevant Documents
• Check with local People function
for local steering documents
To raise an Ethics and Compliance concern, contact the Ericsson Compliance Line13 Our Compass 2.3
Our Code Ensure health, safety
Our people
and well-being
Our business
Our assets
Our engagement
We work together to ensure • Promote a psychologically safe speak-up
culture, where everyone can report the
a safe and healthy work
factors that are a barrier to safety and well-
environment for all. being
• Prevent psychosocial risks and poor work
design by promoting healthy workloads
We’ll do everything we can to keep you safe
and role clarity and avoiding conflicting
and well at work and we expect you to do
demands
everything you can to look after yourself and
anyone else working with or alongside you.
• Not work under the influence of alcohol or
Our goal is zero work-related fatalities, injuries,
illegal substances
and illnesses. We all need to work together to
achieve Target Zero, and Ericsson Care is our
• Not work under the influence of medication
holistic approach to achieving this.
if doing so could jeopardize anyone’s health
or safety
You must:
• Report any health and safety incidents
• Always work responsibly and safely, use
via the Global Incident Reporting Tool to
the right tools and personal protective
Learn more equipment, complete assigned safety prevent recurrences
training, and follow health and safety rules
• Speak up and stop working if you are
(including Lifesaving Rules) to ensure no
Useful links concerned about your or your colleague’s or
harm comes to our employees or suppliers
supplier’s health, safety, or well-being. If the
• Health, safety and well-being
situation is not corrected, you must contact
• Proactively help to create an environment
your line manager and local health and
that promotes health, safety, and well-
CoBE Relevant Documents:
safety representative and report the issue in
being for all
the Global Incident Reporting Tool.
• See section 2.3. of CoBE Relevant Documents
• Identify, raise and mitigate health and
safety risks
To raise an Ethics and Compliance concern, contact the Ericsson Compliance Line14 Our Compass 2.4
Our Code Prohibit and prevent forced labor,
Our people
human trafficking and child labor
Our business
Our assets
Our engagement
We work here because we have freely
chosen to do so, and we support the
rights of children.
Presence of forced labor
At Ericsson, any form of slavery exploitation – including human
trafficking and forced, coerced, bonded or compulsory labor –
Forced labor is prevalent on a global scale and
is strictly prohibited. All work performed for Ericsson must be
present in many industries. You should especially
voluntary, consensual, and free from coercion or threats. We
consider this risk when hiring migrant workers, using
are all free to leave our employment or assignment after giving
labor brokers, or utilizing a temporary workforce.
reasonable notice according to applicable law. You shall never
You must not ask prospective employees to pay
accept any demands to leave deposits of money or identity
recruitment fees or other service-related costs.
papers with Ericsson or a recruitment agency.
This applies whether a recruiting agency is used or
not. Ericsson is committed to the “employer pays
You are prohibited from purchasing for yourself or others or
principle” and will reimburse any recruitment fees
allowing others to purchase for you sexual services – or other
borne by a worker.
services of a sexual nature – while on company-sponsored trips
or in connection with company business, regardless of local
Learn more
legislation.
We uphold and defend the rights of children and ensure child
Useful links
protection measures are implemented in all our interactions with
• Business and Human Rights Statement children. We firmly prohibit child labor and apply precautionary
• Respect for human rights principles to avoid causing harm to children throughout
our operations. An individual’s age must be verified and
documented during the hiring process to ensure that they are of
appropriate working age.
CoBE Relevant Documents:
• See section 2.4. of CoBE Relevant Documents
To raise an Ethics and Compliance concern, contact the Ericsson Compliance Line1155 OOuurr CCoommppaassss
Our Code Our business, We are committed to doing business with
Our people
integrity and transparency and being a
O ur business customers and
responsible corporate citizen.
Our assets
Our engagement suppliers
3.1 Conduct business with integrity – and zero tolerance for corruption 16
3.2 Act in Ericsson’s best interest 17
3.3 Compete on the merits of our technologies and offerings 18
03
3.4 Engage only with third parties who share our commitment to integrity 19
3.5 Respect international trade and anti-money laundering laws 20
TToo rraaiissee aann EEtthhiiccss aanndd CCoommpplliiaannccee ccoonncceerrnn,, ccoonnttaacctt tthhee EErriiccssssoonn CCoommpplliiaannccee LLiinnee16 Our Compass 3.1
Our Code Conduct business with integrity
Our people
– and zero tolerance for corruption
Our business
Our assets
Our engagement
We do not use improper • Be diligent when providing anything to
public officials (or their family members),
influence to win business.
and remember that pre-approvals and more
restrictive rules apply
Reputation and trust are hard-won and easily • Obtain the necessary pre-approvals and
Public officials are members,
lost. At Ericsson, we never seek to improperly document them
employees, or representatives of:
influence actions by anyone. Offering or giving
any benefit to a public official, colleague, • Never make an improper payment to
• Governments – whether national,
customer, or other third party as a way to gain expedite or secure a routine governmental
regional, or local
an undue advantage is called bribery, and it is action (facilitation payments), such as the
strictly prohibited. You must also not demand issuance of a visa, permit, or license
• State-owned or state-controlled
or accept any such benefits from anyone.
companies
• Not use personal funds or someone else’s
We have no tolerance for any form of bribery funds to do something that you couldn’t
• The military, police, and courts
or corruption. In addition, Ericsson will not do with corporate funds, for example
contribute directly or indirectly to political purchasing illegal gifts such as ivory,
• Political parties, candidates
parties or individual politicians except to narcotics, or sexual services
for public office, and politically
support voluntary employee contributions
exposed persons
Learn more permitted under local law and supported by • Consult GFMC Government & Advocacy or
public reporting regulations. Group Function Legal Affairs & Compliance
• Public international organizations
prior to meeting with government officials
(for example, the United Nations
Useful links You must always ensure that gifts,
or the World Bank)
entertainment, hospitality, sponsorships,
• Anti-Corruption Compliance
donations, and employment opportunities
• Gifts, entertainment and hospitality
• Royal families
• Contributions at Ericsson comply with our steering documents and
the law. Here are examples of mandatory
requirements designed to help act lawfully and
CoBE Relevant Documents:
compliantly:
• See section 3.1. of CoBE Relevant Documents
• Never provide any personal benefits to
individuals, such as cash, cash equivalents,
loans, vacations, or similar benefits
To raise an Ethics and Compliance concern, contact the Ericsson Compliance Line17 Our Compass 3.2
Our Code Act in Ericsson’s best interest
Our people
Our business
Our assets
Our engagement
We act swiftly and Examples of potential conflicts of interest
include:
transparently to disclose
anything that may be a – Doing business with third parties that
employ, or are owned by your family
conflict of interest.
members, friends, or former Ericsson
colleagues
In our work for Ericsson, situations can arise – Hiring or supervising anyone with whom
where our professional judgment could be seen you have a personal relationship
to be impaired by other competing interests
related to relationships and roles we maintain – Working in your free time for
outside of Ericsson. This is called a conflict Ericsson customers or suppliers
of interest, and it is not inherently wrong.
However, we each have a responsibility to – Working outside Ericsson or taking on
put Ericsson’s legitimate business interests engagements or directorships that
first. Whenever we become aware of a interfere with your job performance,
potential conflict of interest, we don’t ignore require you to use Ericsson’s confidential
it; we ensure that it is properly disclosed and and proprietary information or assets,
Learn more handled. or would create intellectual property
You must: – Engaging on behalf of Ericsson with
Useful links customers, suppliers, or other external
• Avoid conflicts of interest when stakeholders of a company in which
• Conflict of Interest
manageable you have ownership or other significant
• Compliance consultation desk
• E&C Portal financial interest
• Disclose all situations, transactions, and
relationships that could lead to or be
perceived as a conflict of interest via the
Ethics & Compliance Portal. The Compliance
CoBE Relevant Documents:
Office and People Function will help you
• See section 3.2. of CoBE Relevant Documents manage the situation.
To raise an Ethics and Compliance concern, contact the Ericsson Compliance Line18 Our Compass 3.3
Our Code Compete on the merits of our
Our people
technologies and offerings
Our business
Our assets
Our engagement
We compete fairly. You must check with Group Function Legal
Affairs & Compliance before negotiating
exclusivity or non-compete agreements
or if you have concerns about any other
We do not seek competitive advantages
competition matters.
through illegal or unethical business
practices. You must not improperly obtain
or use confidential information, including
competitive bidding information, belonging to
others. You must always act within applicable
competition, anti-trust, and fair-trading laws
and regulations in all your dealings with
customers, competitors, and suppliers. This
means you must not enter into any agreements
or otherwise participate in discussions that
could give rise to competition concerns, such
as price fixing or fixing other terms of purchase
or sale, the sharing of competitively sensitive
information or other cartel-like behavior. This
includes agreements with third parties not
Learn more
to hire each other’s employees or fix wages.
Abuse of a dominant market position is also
prohibited.
Useful links
• Compliance consultation desk
CoBE Relevant Documents:
• See section 3.3. of CoBE Relevant Documents
To raise an Ethics and Compliance concern, contact the Ericsson Compliance Line19 Our Compass 3.4
Our Code Engage only with third parties who
Our people
share our commitment to integrity
Our business
Our assets
Our engagement
We only work with third Third Party Management (TPM) process.
Never use a third party to do something that
parties who abide by the same
Ericsson employees are not allowed to do
standards of integrity that we themselves.
demand of ourselves.
• Engage in truthful and transparent
interactions with third parties and ensure
that they sign and commit to our Code
Working with third parties can present of Conduct for Business Partners (or
significant risks that we must carefully equivalent)
navigate – so that the values we stand for
aren’t compromised. Our business continues • Actively monitor any conditions upon which
to build upon a large network of third parties, a third party approval decision was made,
such as distributors, partners, suppliers, and be vigilant about red flags, material
agents, or consultants. Their actions reflect changes, and warning signs
on our company’s reputation as much as our
own. We only engage with suppliers and other • Keep accurate third party records, act on
partners who share our high standards about any non-conformities, and prohibit any
integrity, human rights, health and safety, attempt to influence decisions through
Learn more and the environment. We conduct business improper payments
with integrity, responsibly and in compliance
with the legal requirements and governmental • Implement effective risk mitigation,
Useful links regulations of the countries in which we including corrective actions and remedies
operate, and expect our third parties to comply where applicable, including contract
• Ericsson Responsible Sourcing
with all applicable laws and regulations. termination for repeated and/or severe
• TPM at Ericsson
violations
You must:
CoBE Relevant Documents:
• Be especially careful when working with
• See section 3.4. of CoBE Relevant Documents • Act as a true business owner anyone who holds (or used to) a prominent
public position, or a family member or
• Work only with qualified, approved third close associate of such a person (PEP or
parties that go through our responsible Politically Exposed Person).
sourcing processes, including our enhanced
To raise an Ethics and Compliance concern, contact the Ericsson Compliance Line20 Our Compass 3.5
Our Code Respect international trade
Our people
and anti-money laundering laws
Our business
Our assets
Our engagement
We adhere to applicable laws Contact Trade Compliance within GFLA Global You must:
Risk & Regulatory when in doubt and before
and regulations governing
travelling to any sanctioned country for guidance • Never engage in a business transaction if
international trade and anti- on use of your work phone and computer. We you suspect that it involves funds connected
support free and fair trade and are committed with criminal activity
money laundering.
to complying with applicable anti-boycott
regulations. Always seek advice from Group • Adhere to all Ericsson responsible sourcing
Function Legal Affairs & Compliance if you are and due diligence requirements and report
The European Union (EU), the United States unsure of the legality of an action or if you are any red flags
(U.S.), and other jurisdictions enforce trade and asked to participate in a boycott.
sanctions laws, including export and customs • Prior to traveling to areas with known
controls, embargoes, and sanctions. These We are vigilant about financial record-keeping terrorist activities ensure that you have the
laws limit the persons, countries, and entities and reporting requirements, anti-money Ericsson Security Office requirements and
with whom we can do business, as well as laundering laws and regulations, and laws and advice
the hardware, software and services we may regulations applicable to terrorist financing.
provide. They also limit from which countries Money laundering is an illegal activity where
Ericsson as a company, and we as employees, someone attempts to hide the true origins
can carry out work. of money obtained through crime. Terrorist
financing is when funds are used to support
Learn more You must: terrorist activities. Ericsson does not allow
any activities resulting in money laundering
• Be aware of any sanctions, import or export or terrorist financing. When working in areas
Useful links controls that might apply to your business that have known terrorist activity take extra
dealings on behalf of Ericsson before doing precautions prior to giving any resources to an
• GFLA Trade Compliance
such business and ensure that a license is unknown party.
• Trade Compliance Portal
obtained when required
CoBE Relevant Documents:
• Ensure that Ericsson’s sanctions screening
process is performed before onboarding
• See section 3.5. of CoBE Relevant Documents
new third parties and regularly after that
To raise an Ethics and Compliance concern, contact the Ericsson Compliance Line2211 OOuurr CCoommppaassss
Our Code Our assets and We are committed to protecting our
Our people
company’s assets and intellectual
Our business intellectual
property as well as information and
O ur assets
Our engagement property
assets entrusted to us by our colleagues,
customers, and third parties
4.1 Protect confidential information and intellectual property 22
4.2 Use company information and assets responsibly 23
4.3 Protect personal data 24
04
4.4 Maintain proper financial controls and prevent fraud 25
4.5 Communicate responsibly 26
TToo rraaiissee aann EEtthhiiccss aanndd CCoommpplliiaannccee ccoonncceerrnn,, ccoonnttaacctt tthhee EErriiccssssoonn CCoommpplliiaannccee LLiinnee22 Our Compass 4.1
Our Code Protect confidential information
Our people
and intellectual property
Our business
Our assets
Our engagement
We use confidential • Not attempt to improperly obtain
confidential information belonging to other
information and intellectual
companies or third parties
property for proper and
We all have a responsibility to watch out
authorized purposes.
for security threats – such as malware or
phishing – and follow best practices to protect
Ericsson’s information and assets.
Our technical and financial information, as
well as our intellectual property, are critical You must:
to our success. This includes research and
development information, patents, business, • Keep your computer and mobile devices
and product plans and strategies, and updated with the latest appropriate
customer and supplier information. software versions and change your
passwords when prompted
You must:
• Not share user IDs (signums) or passwords
• Not discuss confidential information in
public places or on the internet • Use the software provided for securely
connecting your laptop to Ericsson’s
• Only access or share confidential network when away from the office
information if there is a legitimate business
Learn more
reason to do so • Only use authorized or approved software,
devices and messaging apps
• Only store confidential and business-related
Useful links
information on Ericsson-authorized devices • Encrypt emails containing any confidential
• Report security and privacy incidents and cloud services or personal information
• Compliance consultation desk
• Security at Ericsson
• Accompany your visitors at Ericsson’s • Report all potential security incidents via
offices and facilities the Security Incident Management System
(SIMS).
CoBE Relevant Documents:
• Not take or use Ericsson information when
you leave the company – all company
• See section 4.1. of CoBE Relevant Documents
information belongs to Ericsson.
To raise an Ethics and Compliance concern, contact the Ericsson Compliance Line23 Our Compass 4.2
Our Code Use company information
Our people
and assets responsibly
Our business
Our assets
Our engagement
We do not engage in any form You must:
of insider trading, and use
• Not buy or sell financial instruments and
company assets for legitimate securities when having inside information or
tell others to do so
purposes only.
All Ericsson employees are
• Not share inside information with anyone
recommended not to trade in
including colleagues except on a strict need-
Ericsson financial instruments and
Inside information is non-public and material to-know basis, as approved by the project
securities during 30 days before
information about Ericsson or other companies leader
the publication of financial reports
that would, if disclosed, have a significant
even if you do not possess inside
effect on the price of financial instruments and • Check with Group Function Legal Affairs &
information.
securities, such as shares, bonds or derivatives. Compliance before trading if you are unsure
Using this information or providing it to others if you have inside information
to trade in financial instruments and securities
is illegal. It is called insider trading, and it must
be avoided without exception.
Learn more
Use Ericsson’s IT systems and
resources only for business-related
Useful links
activities. You are responsible for
protecting company assets from
• Security at Ericsson
misuse, waste, theft, and loss. This
includes not using Ericsson’s IT
CoBE Relevant Documents: resources for any activity that is
illegal, harassing, sexually oriented,
• See section 4.2. of CoBE Relevant Documents
defamatory, racially inflammatory, in
violation of human rights, or related
to child sexual abuse.
To raise an Ethics and Compliance concern, contact the Ericsson Compliance Line24 Our Compass 4.3
Our Code Protect personal data
Our people
Our business
Our assets
Our engagement
We process personal data You must:
responsibly and in accordance
• Collect and process personal data in
with data privacy laws. accordance with applicable laws, data
protection principles and Ericsson steering
documents and other instructions
We protect personal data and support
• Ensure that people from whom we obtain
global efforts to safeguard it. Personal
personal data are informed and can
data is information that can be related to
understand why it is being collected and
an identifiable person. Examples include
processed
name, address, phone number, IMEI
(International Mobile Equipment Identity),
• Use personal data only for legitimate
IMSI (International Mobile Subscriber
business purposes and approved uses
Identity), photo, e-mail, and bank or credit card
necessary for your job
information.
• Share personal data securely only with
We adhere to global privacy principles and
people (within and outside Ericsson,
applicable laws, including the EU General
including vendors, customers and other
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). We also
Learn more business partners) who are authorized to
have Binding Corporate Rules and contractual
receive and process such data
agreements regulating how we process and
share data.
Useful links • Report any suspected data breaches to
the Security Incident Management System
• Reporting security and privacy
(SIMS)
incidents
CoBE Relevant Documents:
• See section 4.3. of CoBE Relevant Documents
To raise an Ethics and Compliance concern, contact the Ericsson Compliance Line25 Our Compass 4.4
Our Code Maintain proper financial
Our people
controls and prevent fraud
Our business
Our assets
Our engagement
We record all financial • Record all financial transactions in
accordance with applicable rules and
information diligently,
Ericsson Accounting Directives and
accurately, and honestly. Instructions
• Never authorize the payment of vague
or questionable expenses or third-party
We have to take steps to prevent fraud and
invoices that are poorly documented or
financial irregularities. We must ensure
incomplete
that our business transactions are recorded
transparently and accurately. Making false
• Ensure expense reports and supporting
or misleading entries in our records, or
receipts and documents are complete,
sidestepping internal controls, are strictly
truthful and accurate
prohibited and may be illegal. Always check
with Group Function Finance & Common
• Use corporate cards for legitimate business
Functions or your local finance support if you
expenses
are unsure what to do or have finance-related
questions or concerns.
• Provide all truthful and accurate supporting
documentation needed to ensure accurate
Here are examples of mandatory requirements
Learn more financial statements
to ensure the integrity of our business records:
• Use the correct GL account to ensure
• Enter into written (never oral) contracts
Useful links accurate accounting and check our costs
with customers and third parties
regularly.
• Ericsson Governance
• Ensure our contracts reflect the substance
of the commercial transaction
CoBE Relevant Documents:
• See section 4.4. of CoBE Relevant Documents • Avoid giving unusual incentives or agreeing
to terms that are not in Ericsson’s best
interest
• Follow signature and spending authority
and relevant approval processes
To raise an Ethics and Compliance concern, contact the Ericsson Compliance Line26 Our Compass 4.5
Our Code Communicate responsibly
Our people
Our business
Our assets
Our engagement
We speak on behalf of the company only
if authorized to do so and take care when
posting on social media.
Our reputation depends on the transparency, accuracy, and
consistency of our public statements. That’s why we have
measures in place to ensure the right information goes out.
These measures apply to statements you make publicly on
social media or in articles, papers, speeches, or other statements
relevant to Ericsson’s business. While we promote freedom
of expression, each of us is responsible and may be held
accountable for social media posts or comments on internal
platforms inconsistent with our values and our Compass.
You must:
• Use good judgment and do not publish or post confidential
Learn more
information about the company and/or the people associated
with it
CoBE Relevant Documents:
• Make clear that your views are your own and that you do not
• See section 4.5. of CoBE Relevant Documents speak for Ericsson (unless you are authorized to do so)
• Not post anything that would cause embarrassment to or
harm Ericsson’s reputation
• Use Ericsson’s internal communication and collaboration
platforms (such as Teams, Yammer, SharePoint, and Outlook)
respectfully and inclusively, considering the perspective of
others
To raise an Ethics and Compliance concern, contact the Ericsson Compliance Line2277 OOuurr CCoommppaassss
Our Code Our social and We are committed to respecting human
Our people
rights, reducing negative environmental
Our business environmental
impact, and supporting socio-economic
Our assets
Our engagement engagement
development across the communities in
which we work.
5.1 Promote the right to privacy and freedom of expression 28
5.2 Uphold our commitment to environmental sustainability 29
5.3 Empower and support local communities 30
05
TToo rraaiissee aann EEtthhiiccss aanndd CCoommpplliiaannccee ccoonncceerrnn,, ccoonnttaacctt tthhee EErriiccssssoonn CCoommpplliiaannccee LLiinnee28 Our Compass 5.1
Our Code Promote the right to privacy
Our people
and freedom of expression
Our business
Our assets
Our engagement
We respect the right to privacy You must:
and freedom of expression,
• Respect, promote, and support human
as the two most salient rights through responsible decision-making,
including during product development,
human rights related to the
the use and sales of our technology, and in
business relationships with customers and
technology we deliver.
suppliers
• Assess external requests and demands that
We strongly believe that our hardware,
may impact the freedom of expression or
software, services, and solutions bring positive
right to privacy of individuals and ensure
change to people. At the same time, we work
such requests are legitimate, proportionate,
to mitigate and minimize the risk of potential
and necessary before acting in response
misuse of our technology.
• Consider the risks of misuse of our
We also strongly advocate for freedom
technology in business engagements, follow
of expression and privacy protections,
the correct procedures to mitigate such
individually and collectively with other
risks, and raise a concern if such risks are
stakeholders.
Learn more being ignored or not adequately addressed
• Act on indications of misuse and disengage
Useful links where relevant
• Business and Human Rights Statement
• Do not pursue business opportunities
where we know that our technology will be
misused, or where effective mitigations are
CoBE Relevant Documents: not possible to implement
• See section 5.1. of CoBE Relevant Documents
To raise an Ethics and Compliance concern, contact the Ericsson Compliance Line29 Our Compass 5.2
Our Code Uphold our commitment to
Our people
environmental sustainability
Our business
Our assets
Our engagement
Our environmental You must:
sustainability programs
• Contribute to Ericsson’s ambitions and
make a difference for the targets related to the environmental impact
of our operations and activities and our
world and create value for all
product sustainability
stakeholders.
• Minimize business travel and consider
surface transportation before air travel
We use a science-based and triple bottom line
• Follow all applicable environmental laws,
(economic-social-environmental) approach
regulations and standards in the markets
to create a positive impact for stakeholders
we compete
throughout our operations, across our
portfolio, and in society. We are committed
• Provide all supporting documentation,
to minimizing the negative environmental
information and data needed to ensure
impact of all our operations and activities.
accurate environmental reporting
Environmental sustainability shall be an
integrated approach spanning all our units
• Follow all environment-related
– a mindset we share as part of Ericsson’s
Learn more product requirements, guidelines and
workforce.
recommendations
Useful links • Report any incidents with environmental
impact via the Global Incident Reporting
• Sustainability & Corporate Responsibility
Tool
• The Ericsson Lists of Banned and Restricted
Substances
CoBE Relevant Documents:
• See section 5.2. of CoBE Relevant Documents
To raise an Ethics and Compliance concern, contact the Ericsson Compliance Line30 Our Compass 5.3
Our Code Empower and support
Our people
local communities
Our business
Our assets
Our engagement
We empower and support suppliers, partners, public officials or
Ericsson current or former employees
local communities to drive
positive impact. All active Ericsson full-time and part-time
employees are eligible to participate in the
Ericsson Volunteers program that supports
their desire to support local communities and
We carefully assess contributions such as
positively impact society.
memberships, co-marketing/joint activities,
sponsorships, donations and academia
collaborations to confirm that they are
consistent with Ericsson’s strategy of
supporting worthy initiatives that can have
the most significant impact. We perform due
diligence to ensure contributions are free from
any actual or potential conflicts of interest –
or may have any association with improper
payments.
To make a contribution, you must:
Learn more
• Place a request for contributions in
accordance with the Company-wide
Useful links
Process for Contributions
• Contributions at Ericsson
• Ericsson Response
• Ensure that business approvals, compliance
assessment and recipient review,
documented agreement, payment execution
CoBE Relevant Documents:
and evidence are all captured according to
• See section 5.3. of CoBE Relevant Documents the process
• Disclose any connections between
contributions and Ericsson’s customers,
To raise an Ethics and Compliance concern, contact the Ericsson Compliance Lineericsson.com/cobe
internal.ericsson.com/cobe