Build Responsibly:
The Meta Code
of Conduct
A foundation for keeping people safe
and making a positive impactBuild Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Contents
33 Competing and Collaborating
03 Introduction
34 Follow global trade laws
04 A message from Mark Zuckerberg
36 Compete vigorously and fairly
05 Our principles are foundational to Meta
38 Collaborate responsibly with third parties
10 Supporting Each Other
41 Engaging with the World
11 Embrace diversity, equity and inclusion
42 Lead with financial integrity
13 Be kind and respectful
44 Do not engage in insider trading
15 Create a secure work environment
46 Communicate openly and transparently
17 Be loyal and transparent
48 Prevent bribery and corruption
20 Protect Meta’s confidential information
51 Giving and receiving gifts and
23 Safeguard Meta’s assets entertainment
53 Interact with governments and political
entities responsibly
25 Protecting and Empowering People
55 Build a more caring, sustainable world
26 Instill responsible data practices across Meta
58 Other aspects of compliance and the
Code of Conduct
28 Building responsibly
59 Achieving our mission responsibly is
31 Safeguard the payment platforms
everyone’s responsibility
2Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Meta Code of Conduct:
Helping us build responsibly
Meta is built to accomplish an important
mission: to give people the power to
build community and bring the world
closer together.
Our reach and influence require that we commit and hold ourselves
accountable to a high standard, ensuring that we build products and
programs that have a positive impact, keep people safe and serve everyone.
The Code of Conduct is our foundation. It helps everyone who works at Meta
understand the responsibilities we have and empowers them to act
responsibly. It explains some of the legal rules we must abide by as well as the
high standard to which we hold ourselves. While it does not cover every
situation you may face in your daily work, the Code of Conduct should be your
first stop when you face an unclear or difficult decision.
3Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
A message from
Mark Zuckerberg
At Meta, we build products and With that comes a deep responsibility to each other, to the communities we serve and to
the world. I believe that embracing this responsibility allows us to innovate better—and
experiences to give people the power
be a better company.
to build community and bring the world
This Code of Conduct defines the expectations we have for how we act and how we make
closer together.
decisions. We should look to it when we have questions or face difficult trade-offs and
gray areas.
The importance of our work means we must all commit to holding ourselves to a high
standard. This is why I expect everyone at Meta—leaders, managers, individual
contributors, contingent workers—to follow our Code of Conduct, advocate for others to
do the same, and feel empowered to speak up if you need help or have questions.
Let’s use this Code of Conduct to build responsibly.
Thank you,
Mark
4Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Our principles
Five principles guide our work
are foundational
at Meta:
to Meta
1 Give people a voice—we build products and programs so
everyone can use their voice—to tell their stories, to share,
to connect, to be heard and to change their lives for the better.
The Code of Conduct is built on our
principles, which are beliefs that we
2 Build connection and community—because we believe in
hold deeply and represent what we
the potential of people when they can come together, we
are committed to helping people connect.
stand for. They help guide how we
make decisions every day.
3 Serve everyone—if you believe in the potential of people,
you need to make sure you provide the same opportunities
to everyone.
4
Keep people safe and protect privacy—we are committed to
protecting our communities from harm.
Promote economic opportunity—people use our tools every
5
day to come together to unlock potential and drive economic
opportunity in their own lives, within their communities and for
their organizations.
5Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
We are all expected
This Code is at the center of how we work together and build impact in the
world, and how we are held accountable for living our principles—it’s
to uphold the Code important.
All Meta Personnel—from leaders to interns—must abide by and uphold the
of Conduct
Code. Violations may result in disciplinary action, up to and including
termination of employment or assignment and financial consequences.
The Code applies to:
TERMINOLOGY USED
AUDIENCE DEFINITION
THROUGHOUT THE CODE
Meta All of Meta, including all Meta Company
subsidiaries and affiliates
worldwide (e.g., Meta Platforms
Ireland Limited, Instagram,
WhatsApp, etc.)
Meta Personnel Members of the Board of Directors, Meta Personnel
officers, and employees of Meta, as
“We”/“Us”/“Our”
well as contingent workers (including
“Each Other”
vendor workers, contractors and
independent contractors)
6Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Requirements of
Meta Personnel
All Meta Personnel are required to: Further, those who lead or manage
Meta Personnel are required to:
Act in accordance with Meta principles and values,
and follow the requirements of this Code and
Lead by example, recognizing that our
Company policies.
behaviors and decisions influence others,
including by championing the importance
Act lawfully, honestly, ethically and in the best
of abiding by the Code of Conduct and
interests of Meta and our Meta users at all times.
Company policies.
Complete required training, use the Code of
Promote and maintain a positive work
Conduct and speak up when you have a question
environment in which everyone feels
or concern.
included and empowered to do the right
thing and speak up when they have ideas,
Cooperate fully with Company investigations, feedback or concerns—this means listening
including requirements around confidentiality, to questions and concerns and escalating
participation and honesty. when needed.
Never retaliate against anyone who raises a Promptly report potential or known
concern in good faith about a possible violation violations of the law, this Code or Company
of the Code, Meta policies or the law, or who policies.
cooperates in an investigation.
7Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Speaking up and
You can always raise your concern with:
getting help 1/2
• Your manager or • You can also submit a report via SpeakUp, Meta’s
another manager concern reporting system, which in many cases
Your voice matters. allows for anonymous reporting:
• Legal or a member of the
Compliance & Ethics team
‐ Visit fb.integrityline.com
• Your Human Resources (HR)
Speaking up is important if you see or suspect a ‐ Call +1-877-564-9619
Business Partner
violation of the law, this Code or any of Meta’s
• Your Employee Relations ‐ Dial the direct access code available at
policies. You don’t need to have all the information or
(ER) Business Partner business.att.com/collateral/access.htmland
details to ask questions or speak up.
then +1-877-564-9619 following the
• Internal Audit
operator’s instructions
• For privacy-related concerns,
You should feel comfortable asking a question or
the Privacy Report Tool
reporting a concern using whatever channel or
• For Contingent Workers, through your company’s issue
resource you prefer. You can trust that your question
escalation process and/or HR Point of Contact (POC)
or concern will be treated seriously and dealt with
promptly and as confidentially as possible.
For more information on available resources and anonymous reporting options, visit the
Whistleblower and Complaint Policy.
If you have questions about the Code, need advice on a particular topic or issue or are
unsure about how to report a concern, please visit the Compliance & Ethics Hub(for FTEs)
or People Portal Contingent Workforce page or CWquestions@(for CWs) for support.
8Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Working with the
What happens next: No tolerance
Compliance & Ethics
investigations for retaliation
team at Meta
When Meta learns about a potential violation Speaking up is not always easy, but it is
of law, this Code or any of Meta’s policies, always the right thing to do and what we
the Company will take action. This often expect at Meta. That is why under the The Compliance & Ethics team is a partner to
includes conducting a fair, objective and Whistleblower and Complaint Policy, we everyone at Meta for navigating the
thorough investigation. Meta will make do not tolerate retaliation against anyone complexities of today and anticipating those
every effort to get all sides of the story who: coming tomorrow.
in a timely, impartial way and maintain
confidentiality to the greatest extent • Raises a concern in good faith about a Visit the Compliance & Ethics Hubfor tools,
possible and in compliance with applicable possible violation of the law, this Code or resources, compliance contacts, and guidance
laws and regulations. Company policies, expresses an intent to on how to make responsible decisions at Meta.
do so or assists other Meta Personnel in Do not hesitate to reach out to the Compliance &
To ensure that we can conduct a meaningful doing so Ethics team for support.
investigation, you are obligated to
participate in Company investigations when
• Participates in an investigation
asked, comply with confidentiality
requirements, be truthful and honest, and
fully answer the questions asked.
If we determine that a violation occurred or
someone was untruthful in the course of an
audit or investigation, we take appropriate
action, including disciplinary action up to
termination, financial consequences, and, if
necessary, referral to law enforcement.
9Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Building responsibly
with each other
To build connection and community, we first
must start by doing the same within our
internal community.
In this section:
Embrace diversity, equity and inclusion 11
Be kind and respectful 13
Create a secure work environment 15
Be loyal and transparent 17
Protect Meta’s confidential information 20
Safeguard Meta’s assets 23
10Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Embrace diversity, equity and inclusion Be kind and respectful Create a secure work environment Be loyal and transparent Protect Meta’s confidential information Safeguard Meta’s assets
Embrace Embracing diversity, equity and
inclusion means we:
diversity, equity
• Strive to promote fairness and equal opportunities for employment, promotion, and in all
and inclusion 1/2
personnel practices on qualifications and skills
• Are respectful of the differences between people and their circumstances and do not
tolerate discrimination or harassment on the basis ofany legally protected characteristics
We are committed to building a diverse,
• Welcome ideas, opinions, and ways of thinking that may be different from our own (known
equitable and inclusive workplace in
as cognitive diversity) and prohibit exclusionary behaviors, which may include incivility,
which everyone feels like they belong bullying and workplace violence, harassment, discrimination and isolating individuals and
groups who are different
and is empowered to bring their
authentic self to work. • Foster an inclusive and respectful workplace by assessing our conscious and unconscious
biases, removing barriers to inclusion, focusing on systemic equity in our people processes
and Company procedures for consistency and fairness, being a supportive ally and
Doing so allows them to freely contribute their talents, standing up for others
ideas and perspectives. We can leverage our collective
• Invest in the physical, mental and emotional well-being of our employees through ongoing
diversity to build the best products, make the best
education around inclusion and diversity initiatives
decisions for the global community we serve, and create
meaningful experiences for everyone. Meta identifies
and implements programs that will assist in the
recruitment, development and retention of a diverse More guidance:
pool of skilled and experienced employees.
Equal Employment Opportunity Policy Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Harassment Policy
11Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Embrace diversity, equity and inclusion Be kind and respectful Create a secure work environment Be loyal and transparent Protect Meta’s confidential information Safeguard Meta’s assets
Diversity at Meta Meta’s diversity, equity and inclusion strategy
Meta strives to build an inclusive workplace where all Meta Personnel feel a sense
Find
of belonging and are valued for who they are and the differences they bring.
To help us build teams rich in diversity, we hire highly qualified
Meta prohibits discrimination based on:
individuals from the widest range of backgrounds and experiences.
This helps us benefit from each other’s vast variety of experiences
• Race, color, ethnicity • Marital status
and perspectives and offer products and services truly designed for
or national origin
all.
• Protected military or
• Age
veteran status
Grow and keep
• Religion or religious creed From onboarding to managing performance to providing community
• Physical or mental disability,
(or belief) education programs, we offer consistent support and resources to
medical condition, genetic
help people grow—professionally and personally. We help people who
• Sex, including pregnancy, information or characteristics
work here expand their skill sets—including their capabilities to build
childbirth, breastfeeding, (or those of a family member)
inclusive team environments where everyone is seen, heard and
reproductive health decisions or
valued. Meta, and the tech industry, must be a space where everyone
related medical conditions • Political views or activity
is welcome and has the opportunity to succeed.
• Sexual orientation
• Status as a victim of
Integrate
domestic violence, sexual
• Gender, gender identity, gender To build products, develop policies, and best serve people in our
assault or stalking
expression, transgender status global community, we must apply diverse perspectives to everything
or sexual stereotypes we do. We leverage the diversity of the people who work at Meta
• Any other basis prohibited under
to provide strategic input on our products, policies, programs and
applicable law
• Nationality, immigration status,
practices and apply these learnings to build for all.
citizenship or ancestry
12Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Embrace diversity, equity and inclusion Be kind and respectful Create a secure work environment Be loyal and transparent Protect Meta’s confidential information Safeguard Meta’s assets
Be kind and
Being kind and respectful means we:
respectful
• Treat every person within our community with respect, regardless of role, position,
seniority, employment status or tenure
We have a responsibility to create a
respectful and inclusive community, which is • Consider the needs and perspectives of others and how our words and actions might be
received
shaped by the experiences people have
working at Meta every day. • Never threaten, act violently toward or harass others, including sexually
• Don’t insult, bully, disparage, shame or mock others and stay vigilant for signs that
others are being harassed or bullied
It is important that Meta Personnel feel valued and
respected and that they are treated fairly at work and
• Don’t retaliate against others—everyone should foster a culture in which anyone can
work-related events, whether in-person or virtual.
comfortably raise a concern without fear
Sharing, providing feedback, debating and
questioning, all with kindness, respect and humor are
• Speak up about anything that may violate Meta’s respectful work environment policies
core to our culture and key to our mission.
(remember, managers are required to promptly report actual or potential violations of
the Harassment Policy, ideally within 24 hours)
This culture helps establish the openness and trust we
need to make informed decisions and have a
meaningful impact in the world. Meta does not tolerate More guidance:
harassment, discrimination, threats, bullying or any
Harassment Policy
similar behavior against anyone.
Meta Whistleblower and Complaint Policy
Community Engagement Expectations
13respectful 2/2
Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Embrace diversity, equity and inclusion Be kind and respectful Create a secure work environment Be loyal and transparent Protect Meta’s confidential information Safeguard Meta’s assets
What is harassment? Q:
My new manager is outgoing and inquisitive. They may think
Harassment is conduct, connected to a protected characteristic, that creates they’re being friendly, but their probing questions about my
a disrespectful, intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive personal life make me feel uncomfortable. In our first 1:1 they
environment. It is never tolerated at Meta. Remember: harassment is about asked me whether I was married and had children. I assumed they
impact—how others perceive an action, not intent. For example, it can be: were trying to get to know me better and build our relationship,
but in my culture, it is not common to discuss your personal life
with colleagues. I avoided their question, but at a recent team
What a person says or writes, including slurs, social they asked me again in front of a group. I responded that I
jokes, or stereotyping as well as threatening, loud prefer not to discuss my personal life at work. They said, “If you’re
or abusive language or behavior, based on protected so uptight, you might not be a good fit for this team. You’re in the
characteristicssuch as race, sexual orientation US now and we just want to get to know you a little better.” I told
the team about my family circumstances but was really
or gender
embarrassed by the comment my manager made.
What can I do?
What a person does, such as unwelcome touching,
A:
making sexual advances, blocking someone’s
While your manager may have had good intent, you should not be
walking path, ignoring someone or deliberately
made to feel uncomfortable or embarrassed, particularly after
humiliating someone
making it clear that you don’t want to discuss your personal life.
There is no place for this at Meta. We focus on the impact of a
comment or action rather than the intent. Reach out to another
What a person displays, such as displaying lewd
manager, Legal, your HR Business Partner or Employee
photos or derogatory slogans in the workplace or
Relations Business Partner, or contact SpeakUp, to discuss your
sharing them electronically. This also includes sharing
concerns further. Any of these options will enable us to help
discriminatory or inappropriate posts about someone
resolve the issue. You will be protected from any retaliation.
with someone else.
14Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Embrace diversity, equity and inclusion Be kind and respectful Create a secure work environment Be loyal and transparent Protect Meta’s confidential information Safeguard Meta’s assets
Create a Creating a secure work
environment means we:
secure work
• Follow applicable environmental, health and safety policies, guidelines and laws
environment
• Protect the environment and the communities in which we operate and conduct
business
• Do not work under the influence of illegal drugs, controlled substances, or any other
Wherever we may be working, we are
substance that could compromise safety or performance
mindful of our security and healthy
• Do not feel pressured or pressure others to consume alcohol at work events or with
work practices so that we and those work colleagues; if you do consume alcohol at a work event, please do so responsibly
around us can thrive. • Comply with Company policies related to travel and leverage Company travel
management processes (e.g., CWT)
• Exercise good judgment and promptly report concerns about Personnel or visitors
Whether working in an office, commuting to or exhibiting behavior that could be a sign of threats or acts of violence
traveling for work, at home, in labs, at data centers or
• Comply with Company policies related to physical security, including visitors, access to
out in the world, nothing is more important than
facilities and use of Meta Personnel badges
staying safe and healthy. We care about each other’s
well-being; we want to create conditions in which we
are free from harm and free to do our best work.
More guidance:
Visitor Policy Workplace Violence Management Policy
Environmental Health and Safety Policy Global Environmental, Health, and Safety Wiki
Drug-Free Workplace Policy Global Travel Support
15secure work environment 2/2
Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Embrace diversity, equity and inclusion Be kind and respectful Create a secure work environment Be loyal and transparent Protect Meta’s confidential information Safeguard Meta’s assets
Q: Q:
A group of my external partners are coming to visit I am worried about my coworker. I have always
my office building. My partners asked if they could known him to be outgoing, reliable and a great team
take pictures and videos while they are on-site. player. The past couple of months, however, he has
Also, while I was escorting them into the building, I not seemed himself: he is withdrawn, erratic and
held the door for someone without a badge who hostile at times and he has missed important
was not with my group. Is this allowed? deadlines. How can I make sure he’s okay while
also looking out for the team?
A:
Visitors can take photos or videos outside, in the
A:
cafés, in the lobbies, in areas set up for photo
We care about our people and their physical and
moments (such as mini rooms) and in front of the
mental well-being. Situations like this should
living Facebook Wall, provided confidential
be handled with great sensitivity, and you should
information isn’t visible. Visitors cannot take
connect with your HR Business Partner or
pictures or videos in Meta workspaces, in
Employee Relations Business Partner before taking
conference rooms, or near laptops or whiteboards.
any next steps. If you’re concerned he may pose a
risk of harm to himself or others, you should contact
Visitors also cannot take pictures of door badge GSOC immediately (via security@, Live Chat, or the
readers or security cameras. We do not want phone number on your badge).
confidential information shared externally or posted
publicly without our consent or knowledge.
Separately, when inviting visitors into Meta offices,
only escort your registered guests—while it may feel
kind to hold the door for others, this practice opens
us up to security and safety issues. Report
unescorted visitors to Global Security.
16Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Embrace diversity, equity and inclusion Be kind and respectful Create a secure work environment Beloyal and transparent Protect Meta’s confidential information Safeguard Meta’s assets
Be loyal and
Being loyal and
transparent transparent means:
• We all recognize that Meta’s business is both • Be mindful that business opportunities
We avoid conflicts of interest to make
broad in scope and constantly changing, which discovered using Meta property,
the best choices for Meta, unaffected
means what qualifies as a potential conflict of information, or your position should not
interest also changes. be used for personal gain.
by personal interests or relationships.
• Avoid making a conflict-of-interest
• Proactively identify situations that could
All of us have personal interests that make us unique and
determination on your own. When it comes to
put Meta’s interests into possible conflict
allow us to bring value to Meta. Even so, we put Meta
outside activities, review the additional
with your own.
first when we come to work or represent Meta. We must
guidance available on conflicts below, discuss
always use our best judgment and avoid situations
the circumstances with your manager and
where our personal interests and relationships might • Promptly disclose actual, potential or
then submit a request for conflicts review via
interfere or appear to interfere with the best interests of perceived conflicts of interest via the
the conflicts tool. Before you begin any of
Meta, such as self-dealing or investing in a competitor. conflictstool.
these opportunities, obtain approval using the
conflicts tool.
Note: Meta’s Board of Directors may from time to time adopt • Refrain from engaging in an outside
separate policies with respect to directors’ conflicts of activity that requires review while the
• Do not allow any personal connections or
interest in order to address the particular circumstances request is being evaluated.
family members to receive a personal benefit
arising from their role as members of the board. Any such
from your position at Meta or improperly
policy will supersede the conflicts of interest rules above to influence, or give the appearance of • Be aware that interns and contingent
the extent applicable. improperly influencing, your decision-making. workers may have different processes
and requirements for conflicts of
More guidance: • Give your best effort at work every day, not interest; please discuss with your
allowing outside jobs to hinder your manager or assignment manager, for
Conflicts of Interest Policy Conflicts Tool
contributions to the business. CWs if there are any concerns.
Conflicts Wiki
17transparent 2/3
Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Embrace diversity, equity and inclusion Be kind and respectful Create a secure work environment Beloyal and transparent Protect Meta’s confidential information Safeguard Meta’s assets
Do I have a conflict Here are some examples of situations in which an actual, potential or
of interest? perceived conflict of interest might arise and must be disclosed:
• Directly or indirectly supervising • Investments in more than 2% of
Conflicts may arisewhen we,or insome instances our close
a family member, close friend or the total outstanding shares of
family members, have business, financial or close personal
intimate partner at Meta or a publicly traded company
relationshipswith our current, formeror potential:
where they are employed by a
Meta supplier or partner
• Investments in private companies
that are current or potential
Customers and Regulators • Hiring or engaging the services competitors of Meta or have a
suppliers of businesses owned by or business relationship with Meta
affiliated with Meta Personnel
• Serving as an advisor to a
• Outside employment,
Beneficiaries of a venture capital fund’s portfolio
Competitors and company’s grant or business, advising or companies or advising on the
other third parties donation consulting relationship with
fund’s investment activities
another organization
• Serving as a member of an
• Teaching or research
outside nonprofit or for-profit
engagements
Meta Personnel organization’s board of directors
or advisory board
• Holding political office or
running for an elected position
18transparent 3/3
Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Embrace diversity, equity and inclusion Be kind and respectful Create a secure work environment Beloyal and transparent Protect Meta’s confidential information Safeguard Meta’s assets
I’m concerned I may have a conflict of interest—
what should I do?
1
Discuss your potential conflict with your manager or ask the
Compliance & Ethics team for guidance.
If you think a personal interest or activity may interfere, or have the
2
appearance of interfering, with Meta’s interests, you are required to
complete and submit a conflict request via the conflicts tool—be sure to
provide all requested information.
3 Your manager or the Conflicts team will review your request and
follow up on any next steps. Adhere to any guidance provided by
your manager and the Conflicts team.
4
If an outside engagement is approved and requires a formal
agreement, a Services Agreement Addendum may be required.
19Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Embrace diversity, equity and inclusion Be kind and respectful Create a secure work environment Be loyal and transparent Protect Meta’s confidential information Safeguard Meta’s assets
Protect
Protecting Meta’s confidential
Meta’s confidential information means:
information 1/3
• Understand how Meta defines and classifies • Do not take any Meta confidential information with you if
confidential informationin the Company’s policies you leave Meta, and return it immediately if you
inadvertently do
• Do not submit, disclose or otherwise transmit Meta’s or
a third party’s confidential, proprietary, competitive or • Remove people who are no longer with the company
We do not improperly use or disclose other sensitive information outside of Meta systems from work-related communications, documents, and
(e.g., to a third party; your external drives, devices or tools
confidential information. accounts; or third party Large Language Model text
• Remember to direct press inquiries about any Meta-
prompts) unless there is specific authorization from
business related topics that you are speaking on to
Legal or your Privacy XFN
Press@.You should not engage with the press on behalf
Disclosing (or “leaking”) confidential information outside • Do not share confidential information internally beyond of, suggest or purport to speak as a representative of
those who need it for their job Meta. This Policy does not, and is not intended to, prevent
of Meta or to those who do not need it for legitimate
members of our community from engaging in protected
business purposes can have significant consequences for • Comply with terms of NDAs or applicable agreements
concerted activity with the press or any other employees
Meta’s business and could be illegal. For example, leaks when dealing with third-party confidential information,
related to discussing wages, benefits, or terms and
including obtaining express written consent if asked to
could expose Meta to liability or give away product conditions of employment in the US.
share third-party confidential information with another
strategies to competitors; they could also result in
third-party • Understand your obligations under your employment
lawsuits or undermine the work, or even safety, of our
agreement
• Do not bring or share any confidential proprietary
colleagues. Sharing Meta’s confidential information with
information belonging to a former employer or entity • Do not make any unauthorized audio or electronic
internal or external parties who have no legitimate need
to Meta recordings
to know such information could also seriously damage
Meta’s reputation and breach the trust of others,
including people who use Meta services, our colleagues, More guidance:
third parties and the community.
External Engagement Policy Data Classification Standard
Data Handling Guidelines Data Sharing Standard
Electronic Communications Policy Global Audio Recording Policy 20information 2/3
Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Embrace diversity, equity and inclusion Be kind and respectful Create a secure work environment Be loyal and transparent Protect Meta’s confidential information Safeguard Meta’s assets
What are examples of confidential information? Q:
I am a Meta sales manager. A prospective e-commerce
Below are some examples of confidential information at Meta. If you are unsure client has followed up after an introductory meeting.
if something would be considered confidential information, assume it is The prospective client is asking me to provide data that
confidential and ask Legal for additional guidance or consult your Confidential will convince his CEO to increase advertising spend
Information and Inventions Assignment Agreement (CIIAA)/Confidentiality such as data from our existing e-commerce clients that
Agreements for additional guidance. demonstrates how those clients have achieved success
by increasing their advertising spend. This would be a
huge win for my team so I think it would be okay to
• Proprietary data • Meta User Data • Pricing
provide the data.
• Trade secrets
• Customer or
• Business plans or
Supplier lists
• Product plans other business
information
• Inventions • Meta Personnel data
A:
(other than your own
• Laboratory notebooks • Internal conversations Advancing Meta’s business and relationships is
or that which you are
important. However, we need to remember the
regarding content
• Processes authorizedtoshare)
importance of protecting confidential
decisions
• Designs • Prototypes information. In this case, nonpublic,
confidential information about Meta and other
• The identities of specific
• Drawings
• Hardware e-commerce clients might be at risk if shared.
employees or contingent
Without specific authorization and a
• Technical or workers who are involved
• Financial information
nondisclosure agreement in place, data that is
engineering in content review
not in the public domain cannot be shared.
specifications • Budgets processes
21information 3/3
Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Embrace diversity, equity and inclusion Be kind and respectful Create a secure work environment Be loyal and transparent Protect Meta’s confidential information Safeguard Meta’s assets
Leaks hurt all of us.
Donotshareinternalconfidentialinformation Be aware of your surroundings.
externallyorinternallyoutsideofpeoplewhose Your badge, vintage swag or even your new
Whether intentional or unintentional, leaksof
jobrequiresit.Forexample: laptop stickers may identify that you work
confidential information damagethe Company’s
for Meta, especially near our offices. Be
ability to confidently shareinformation internally,
• Confidential and/or proprietary information shared aware of your surroundings when working
whichisafundamental part of Meta cultureand
in Internal Q&As, Workplace posts and All Hands outside of the office or at home to prevent
keyto the Company’ssuccess.
inadvertent leaks of confidential
• Screenshots of new products
information.
• Hints about launches or unreleased features to
friends, family, bloggers or former Meta Personnel
• Don’t have confidential work
• Financial performance and results
conversations in public places.
• Potential mergers, acquisitions or partnerships
• If you want to work in a public
setting—for example, on a plane or
Direct press inquiries to Press@
train, in a park, or at a coffee shop—
always use a privacy screen on your
Accidental or inadvertent sharing of confidential
computer.
information is still considered a leak.
• When working from home, take care
Our internal rule of “assume good intent” doesn’t
not to reveal sensitive or confidential
apply here. It’s still contrary to the obligations we owe
information in front of anyone.
to Meta when someone shares confidential
information externally or internally beyond those who
strictly need to know, even if it is done accidentally or Even at our campuses and in our buildings,
in good faith. we need to be cautious. Visitors or co-
workers could be present and hear and see
Note: A “leak” does not include communicating directly with or
Regardless of the motivations, every leak of things that are meant to be kept
providing documents to a government agency regarding a possible
legal violation, even if not disclosed to Meta. Anyone raising such a confidential information is treated extremely seriously. confidential.
concern is protected from retaliation.
22Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Embrace diversity, equity and inclusion Be kind and respectful Create a secure work environment Be loyal and transparent Protect Meta’s confidential information Safeguard Meta’s assets
Safeguard
Safeguarding Meta’s assets means we:
Meta’s assets 1/2
• Follow established guidelines, based on the • Follow Meta policies andguidelines
when using Meta’s assets and
asset type and business strategy, to protect
resources for personal use
We responsibly use and protect Meta’s Meta intellectual property (IP) and all
confidential information
assets and resources, so we can create • Maintain the security of Meta-provided
• Respect the IP rights and confidential technologies and personal devices used
real value for the world.
information of everyone, including third forMetabusiness
parties, Meta Personnel, competitors,
and users • Comply with all applicable laws,
We must all be good stewards of Meta’s assets,
regulations and Meta policies
whether physical, data, financial, technical or • Use Meta’s assets and resources with
concerning record-keeping and
intellectual. Meta’s success continues to be built care and for legitimate business
records retention
around open innovation, collaboration and discovery. purposes—assets should not be stolen,
Meta’s ability to move fast and innovate depends on wasted or used for personal gain
• Report any signs of fraud or abuse in
protecting the property, information and ideas that
• Be aware of attempts at social engineering connection with Meta’s assets
power our progress.
More guidance:
Information Security Policy FTC Order Records Management Policy
Acceptable Use Policy FTC Order Records Retention Schedule
Data Handling Guidelines Protecting Confidential Meta Property
23Meta’s assets 2/2
Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Embrace diversity, equity and inclusion Be kind and respectful Create a secure work environment Be loyal and transparent Protect Meta’s confidential information Safeguard Meta’s assets
Q: Q:
I just started working at Meta. At my previous I’ve been involved in a dispute around the departure Did you know?
employer, I was working on an open-source project of one of my former employees. We had a hard time
Our eDiscovery and Information
and would like to continue doing so. What do I need locating some of her employment records. I don’t
Governance team is the go-to resource
to know about Meta’s approach to IP and know if the dispute has been resolved so I am keeping
for records retention and legal holds.
open-source innovation? her employment records in a folder on my computer.
Generally, the following types of
I’m not sure if we have record retention guidelines or
information, among others, may be
if we are supposed to delete certain records after a
A:
subject to records retention and legal
Meta invests heavily in all aspects of IP development period of time. I’m not sure what to do?
hold obligations:
to enable our continued success, both as an innovator
and as a contributor to the global community. Meta
A: • Email and other electronic
continues to innovate openly whenever possible
Unless you have received a Legal Hold, it’s communications, including on
(open-source, publications, etc.) as a means to unlock
appropriate to follow our retention policies and
the potential of open collaboration and discovery, Workplace, WhatsApp and other
potentially delete the records. Keeping records for
advance the state of innovation globally and provide messaging apps
too long can put sensitive or confidential information
equitable access to technology.
• Information published on the Wiki
at risk of being accessed and misused. We may also
have a legal obligation to delete information that is or other internal reference or
The decision of whether to openly innovate is
no longer needed, like personal data or confidential knowledge sharing platforms
based on the particular business strategy and
information from a business partner. By retaining • Documents stored on hard drives or
type of IP, not at the discretion of the individual
records according to our schedules, you strengthen
employee. in cloud repositories, including
our records management program and protect Meta.
Google Docs, SharePoint, OneDrive
Follow all legal hold instructions for retaining
To maximize the impact of our IP development, each and Dropbox
information relating to ongoing litigation or other
employee has an important role in understanding and
• Data stored in structured and
disputes. If you are unsure what to do, you should
following established guidelines, which can be found
contact our eDiscovery and Information Governance semi-structured repositories,
on the Patents wiki page.
team (infogov@)for guidance. including Hive
24Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Building responsibly
for those we empower
Building for those who use Meta products
and services means giving people
a voice, protecting privacy and keeping
people safe.
In this section:
Instill responsible data practices across Meta 26
Building responsibly 28
Safeguard the payment platforms 31
25Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Instilling responsible data practices across Meta Building responsibly Safeguard the payment platforms
Instill responsible
Instilling responsible data practices means we:
data practices
• Understand and follow Meta privacy • Collect, create, access and use only the minimum
practices and policies, including the Internal amount of data we need to support clearly stated
across Meta 1/2
Privacy Policy purposes—we have zero tolerance for inappropriate
access to User Data
• Are mindful as a company of the ways we
• Complete Privacy Reviews as required prior to launch
collect, use, share and store people’s,
of any new or modified Products, Services, or Practices
Meta is committed to respecting people’s including our employees’, personal data and
that collect, use, or share User Data, or prior to making
information in our products and
external representations about our privacy and data
privacy. Having responsible data practices
operations—and how we handle and protect
security practices
it once we have it
enables us to maintain trust with each other
• Ensure our Privacy Review process and our Company’s
and with Meta users, and allows us to comply • Only share data that is necessary and privacy practices are in alignment with the Eight
proportionate for the purpose and ensure Expectations of Privacy
with our legal obligations.
that sensitive personal information is not
• Properly respond to events that undermine the
disclosed without the permission of the
confidentiality, integrity, or availability of data for
individual
which Meta is responsible
Whether we’re building new products, improving
• Regularly evaluate the Company’s privacy practices to
experiences, or managing a third party, everyone needs to • Design with privacy in mind, which in part,
ensure that we are meeting our own, our stakeholders’,
means giving people choices about the data
understand and honor Meta’s privacy obligations and
and our regulators’ expectations
we have collected or created about them,
commitments. Committing to privacy means embedding
including access to and control of their data
• Use and access internal tools with care and caution,
accountability, designing with privacy in mind, and
whenever possible and appropriate and honor
only as necessary to do our job and never for personal
ensuring that we continue to safeguard the privacy and the choices they have made
gain or to assist a user in avoiding detection or penalty
security of the data we are entrusted with. We continue to
enhance, transform, and embrace privacy in all our work.
More guidance:
Internal Privacy Policy Privacy Wiki User Data Access Policy 26Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Instilling responsible data practices across Meta Building responsibly Safeguard the payment platforms
Q: Q:
I am a Meta contingent worker in a sales role. My I recently transferred to a new team. My new
friend Tom is the administrator of a Facebook page manager sent a request to IT for the additional
for a barbershop chorus. Tom reached out to me system access permissions that I will need for
because a video of one of his performances was my new job. What should I do with the access
taken down, and Tom doesn’t understand why. Tom permissions from my prior role and team?
gave me his sign-in credentials and asked me if I
could log in as him to assess the problem and use
internal tools to restore the content. Since Tom’s A:
You should notify IT or your manager that you still
video has nothing to do with my work, is it okay if I
have your old permissions. You should not keep
restore his content?
access to systems and applications that are not
required for your new role. Keeping access could
A:
mean that you can view confidential information
You should not use another person’s credentials to
thatyounolongerhaveabusinessneedtoview.
log into their account or work on a friend’s account. “Getting privacy right is a
You are accessing User Data that was not relevant for Both you and your manager have a responsibility continual, collective
your job. In addition, you’re restoring content that to discuss existing and new access permissions to
investment across our
had been removed. determine what is needed.
company, and is the
It is okay to talk about Meta with friends, but you It is important that Meta Personnel have access only
responsibility of everyone at
may not access other people’s User Data, even of to data that is necessary for the performance of
Meta to advance our
people you know. If a friend or family member is their current job responsibilities.
having an issue with a Facebook or Instagram mission.”
account that belongs to them, you can submit a
form to fburl.com/oopsto get support. Meta has
–MICHEL PROTTI,
zero tolerance for inappropriate access to User
ChiefPrivacyOfficer for Product
Data, even if you have good intent.
27Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Instilling responsible data practices across Meta Building responsibly Safeguard the payment platforms
Building
Building responsibly means we:
responsibly
• Proactively consider a broad range of potential • Engage in reviews & office hours, such
impacts on people, communities and society, as Privacy Review, Integrity XFN
looking across different dimensions of review, Civil Rights office hours &
responsibility, such as inclusion, safety, Responsible AI office hours, to discuss
Meta is committed to maximizing the
privacy, human and civil rights and others tradeoffs and mitigate risks
positive impact we have on people and
• Raise and address potential harms early and
• Work quickly to identify and remove
society through all that we build.
often throughout the product development
harmful content & interactions from
process and carry out human rights due
Meta platforms, such as hate speech,
diligence
harassment, child exploitation, threats
As we reach more people and continue to build new
of violence and terrorism
• Conduct civil rights analysis from inception to
products and programs, the need to create responsible
implementation, such as determining whether
products grows broader and more complex. It is not enough
• Design and build products that prioritize
marginalized communities have different
to just innovate. We are all expected to innovate responsibly
safety, privacy, dignity and equity across
experiences with our policies, products, and
by making every effort to anticipate and mitigate potential
our technologies
practices
harms in all that we build.
• Seek out expert voices, diverse perspectives • Provide appropriate warnings where
and the resources and tools we have at Meta necessary and articulate instructions for
to inform our decisions safe and responsible use of our products
More guidance:
Meta Reality Labs Responsible Innovation Building Responsibly Wiki
Civil Rights Wiki Human Rights Wiki
28Innovate responsibly 2/3
Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Instilling responsible data practices across Meta Building responsibly Safeguard the payment platforms
The dimensions for building responsibly are an evolving set of elements that individuals, communities and
society need to thrive, and which Meta platforms need to protect. These dimensions map to our company
principles and provide a framework for Meta employees to adopt a more holistic approach to proactively
identifying and mitigating potential harms throughout the product development process.
DIMENSIONS FOR BUILDING RESPONSIBLY
Givepeopleavoice Buildconnection Serveeveryone Keeppeoplesafeand Promote economic
andcommunity protect privacy opportunity
Environmental Privacy and data
Autonomy Constructive discourse Economic security
sustainability protection
Civic engagement Well–being Fairness and inclusion Safety
Voice
29Innovate responsibly 3/3
Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Instilling responsible data practices across Meta Building responsibly Safeguard the payment platforms
“We want to be building
Did you know? 01
products… with a lens of
inclusion and equity to
Safety is one of the dimensions for building
responsibly.
ensure our products
We have specific teams that partner with
external organizations and government bring value to all people.”
agencies to help keep people safe. For
instance, we have a legal obligation to report
to the National Center for Missing and
Exploited Children any apparent violation of
laws pertaining to child exploitation imagery.
–Maxine Williams,
Chief Diversity Officer
We have teams that are specially trained to
review, escalate and report this content, which
must be done in a secure manner exposing the
fewest people to this material.
Note: If you come across this material, do not download it,
forward it or share it.
30Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Instilling responsible data practices across Meta Building responsibly Safeguard the payment platforms
Safeguard the
Safeguarding the payment
payment platforms
platform means we:
• Understand and follow the Company’s policies, procedures and internal controls
We help the world move money, shop, and
that are designed to prevent bad actors from utilizing payment platforms to
donate conveniently and securely, and we launder money and engage in other illegal activity
must do our part to prevent criminal
• Keep an eye out for suspicious payment activities, such as reluctance to provide
activity.
complete information or unusual links between games players and developers,
donors and charities, or person-to-person payments, and escalate red flags and
suspicious activity to Compliance & Ethics
We are committed to providing people a convenient, secure
and consistent payment experience. We know that criminals
and other bad actors target online payment platforms to • Take responsibility for verifying a customers’ identity—referred to as “know your
perpetrate illegal activity, such as money laundering and customers”—so we are aware of who is using Meta products
terrorist financing. We also are required to comply with
financial sanctions regimes. • Maintain confidentiality when investigating and reporting suspicious activity and
respect that data relating to payments may not be freely shared across Meta
As we operate regulated payment platforms, we are
required by law to stay vigilant, verify the identity of
customers/users and protect them by carefully
monitoring for fraud and suspicious behavior. We also
More guidance:
provide transparency through customer notices and
timely resolve complaints and disputes. Meta FinTech Compliance Wiki
31Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Instilling responsible data practices across Meta Building responsibly Safeguard the payment platforms
What is money laundering? Money laundering red flags
We must always be on the lookout for signs of suspicious
Money laundering generally refers to financial transactions in which criminals, activity or transactions. Some examples include:
including criminal organizations, attempt to disguise the proceeds, sources or
nature of their illicit activities. Terrorist financing (any type of financial support
Transactions that don’t fit a user’s normal profile
for a terrorist organization, whether from illicit activity or not) also can be
A user who typically conducts only a few small
linked to money laundering. Examples of relevant laws include the Bank
transactions a month (and always with friends) suddenly
Secrecy Act (BSA) in the United States and Ireland’s Criminal Justice (Money
makes a large payment to a new Meta user
Laundering and Terrorist Financing) Act.
Frequent changes in account information
Such as name, contact information and/or payout
How does this apply details
to Meta?
We allow person-to-person
Unusual charity donation patterns
payments (“P2P”), some
A charity that shows a higher level of activity than
in-game and Facebook
is normal in donations or a single donor who makes
Marketplace purchases and
repeated donations over a short period of time
donations, which are all
subject to monitoring for
money laundering.
Signs of criminal activity on Meta platforms
The sale of drugs or weapons
32Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Build responsibly with
our partners
Meta’s technologies promote economic
opportunity and level the playing field. We,
too, can only build responsibly if we
compete and collaborate fairly.
In this section:
Follow global trade laws 34
Compete vigorously and fairly 36
Collaborate responsibly with third parties 38
33Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Follow global trade laws Compete vigorously and fairly Collaborate responsibly with third parties
Follow global Following global trade laws
means we:
trade laws 1/2
• Appropriately screen individuals, companies and countries to ensure we do not
violate applicable sanctions or trade restrictions
With offices, people and facilities in
numerous countries worldwide, • Comply with all applicable international trade and antiboycott laws and regulations,
including those relating to the import and export of goods, services and technical
Meta is committed to complying
data to and from the United States and other countries
with and respecting global export,
• Raise a concern to Trade Legal if we believe there may be an inappropriate import
import and sanctions laws.
or export of technical data or hardware
• Consult Global Trade Compliance Wiki or contact the Trade Legal team before
We are proud to serve more than three billion people
engaging with sanctioned or embargoed countries and parties
across many countries and cultures and in dozens
of languages. We move hardware, software and
technology to and from various countries. We also
transact with customers, suppliers, entities and
individuals all over the globe. This means we have a
More guidance:
duty to respect applicable customs, trade and
sanctions laws and regulations where we serve. Global Trade Compliance Policy International Hand-Carry Wiki
Global Trade Compliance Wiki TradeLegal@
Travel to Sanctioned Countries Wiki
342/2
Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Follow global trade laws Compete vigorously and fairly Collaborate responsibly with third parties
What do I need to look out for?
These activities could present sanctions and/or trade risk:
Business and supplier International shipping and
partnerships transfers of technology
Q:
Market research Hiring decisions
I am traveling to a country subject to comprehensive
sanctions to attend a wedding. My team is under a
strict deadline to finish a project and I would like to
Payments to sanctioned Boycott requests that are not work while I am there. Can I bring my Meta-issued
countries or parties authorized by U.S. law laptop with me?
A:
When traveling to a country subject to comprehensive
Obtaining goods and services
national and international trade sanctions, advance
approval from Compliance & Ethics is required. This
applies to any transactions or activities involving
sanctioned countries or restricted parties, as well as
approval to travel to a sanctioned country with a
company-owned or managed device.
35Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Follow global trade laws Compete vigorously and fairly Collaborate responsibly with third parties
Compete
Competing fairly means that we:
vigorously
• Make business decisions independently from our competitors, not in agreement or
collaboration with them
and fairly 1/2
• Never agree, either directly or indirectly, with competitors:
- To set any aspect of prices or other terms related to the products or services we provide
to third parties
- To allocate customers, advertisers, territories or product markets
We succeed by competing with other
- To refrain from dealing with a particular company
businesses on the quality of our
(called a “group boycott”)
- On bid levels or whether to submit a bid on any prospective business
products and services.
- To refrain from either (i) recruiting or hiring their (or anyone else’s) employees or (ii)
competing on salary or other terms of employment
Competition makes us a better, more innovative
• Do not exchange or communicate competitively sensitive information with competitors, unless
company. Competition laws, also known as antitrust
approved in advance by Legal
laws, ensure that companies don’t unreasonably
- Competitively sensitive information includes information that is proprietary,
restrict competition or use market power in ways
confidential or non-public and that is related to an individual company’s operations or
that harm competition.
relationships with users or other third parties
• Meta Personnel should not use non-public data or information directly or indirectly derived
Complying with competition laws helps us avoid
from advertisers’ use of Meta’s advertising services to develop products in competition with
investigations, lawsuits, fines, restrictions and even
those advertisers, unless approved in advance by Legal
criminal penalties.
More guidance:
Competition Compliance Policy 36and fairly 2/2
Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Follow global trade laws Compete vigorously and fairly Collaborate responsibly with third parties
What do I need to look out for? 02
The below examples could raise competition-related legal issues in certain
circumstances. As this area of law and the relevant issues can be complex, seek
advice from Legal before engaging in the following activities:
• Making any exclusive arrangement in which Meta • Deprecating a Meta product or service that third
requires a customer to enter into an agreement parties rely on to carry out their business, such
with Meta and no other competitors that they may be substantially impacted if they
are no longer able to access or use the Meta
product or service
• Making the sale (or price) of one product/service
contingent on the customer purchasing another
• Taking any action that someone might perceive
product/service (also called “tying”)
as Meta not competing fairly or giving Meta an
unfair advantage not available to third parties
• Attempting to establish the price at which a
reseller of a Meta product resells those products
• Terminating a preexisting relationship that is
important to the other party without a valid
business justification
37Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Follow global trade laws Compete vigorously and fairly Collaborate responsibly with third parties
Collaborate
Collaborating responsibly
responsibly with
with third parties means we:
third parties 1/3
• Perform risk reviews on third parties and obtain proper approvals prior to
engagement to ensure they are ethical, qualified, reputable and accountable
We seek to engage with trustworthy third
• Seek to engage only with third parties that align with Meta’s mission and values
parties who can help us achieve our goals
and work collaboratively to innovate and • Aim to source and partner responsibly by requiring third parties to adhere to
Meta’s expectations and relevant laws and regulations, such as privacy and
create social and economic value.
security requirements, anti-corruption laws, tax trade and sanction laws, and
the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA)standards to build safe, resilient,
Meta works with and relies on third parties, including diverse and economically empowered communities
suppliers, vendors, and business partners, to help us
achieve our mission. We can only do this if the third
• Source through competitive bidding processes and approved agreements
parties are qualified, act ethically and with integrity,
and comply with applicable laws, regulations,
and policies.
More guidance:
The impossible is possible when we work with third
Third Party Risk Management Policy Internal Privacy Policy
parties who reflect the diversity of the people and
Global Sourcing and Procurement Policy Third Party Security Policy
communities we serve, and whose principles and
values align with ours. Contract Policy Anti-Corruption Policy
External Communications and Advocacy Principles Supplier Diversity Principles
38third parties 2/3
Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Follow global trade laws Compete vigorously and fairly Collaborate responsibly with third parties
Q: A:
Did you know? 02
I am currently involved in a request for proposal There are many important considerations when
(RFP) and four suppliers have responded. One selecting a supplier, and price is one of them. At
Meta launched its Supplier Diversity
of the four has a significantly lower price but Meta, in addition to price, many other factors go
efforts in October 2016 to help diverse
doesn’t quite match up to the other suppliers in into an RFP decision. These may include but are
suppliers do business with us and with
terms of capabilities. Am I obligated to select the not limited to the supplier’s capacity, safety,
supplier with the lowest price? quality, resources, technical abilities, diversity, the people and communities that Meta
alignment to the expectations of the RBA, connects. The vision of the program is to
compliance program and commitment to Meta’s
transform the way diverse suppliers
mission and values.
connect to customers, each other, and
tools and resources to grow.
Since the launch, Meta has spent
more than $8 billion globally with
companies certified as minority,
women, veteran, LGBTQ+ or
disabled-owned.
In addition to Meta’s own collaboration
with diverse suppliers, it is our
expectation that suppliers who partner
with Meta share these values and source
goods and services from diverse
businesses wherever possible.
39third parties 3/3
Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Followglobaltradelaws Competevigorouslyandfairly Collaborateresponsiblywiththirdparties
Sourcing responsibly
At Meta, we expect our suppliers to:
Ensure that personnel take
Respond in a timely manner to
Challenge the status quo and Conduct operations in a
assigned required trainings
drive innovation through professional and respectful information requests or audits
quality, delivery, safety and manner and share our
cost commitment to ethical business
practices like honoring privacy
and avoiding conflicts of
interest and insider trading
40Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Building responsibly
with the world
It is important to build trust with society,
governments, regulators and local communities, and
we all have a responsibility to do so. This is how we
can truly build responsibly and serve everyone.
In this section:
Lead with financial integrity 42
Do not engage in insider trading 44
Communicate openly and transparently 46
Prevent bribery and corruption 48
Giving and receiving gifts and entertainment 51
Interact with governments and political entities responsibly 53
Build a more caring, sustainable world 55
41Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Lead with financial integrity Do not engage in insider trading Communicate openly and transparently Prevent bribery and corruption Giving and receiving gifts and entertainment Interact with governments Build a more caring, sustainable world
Lead with Leading with financial
integrity means we:
financial integrity
• Record, maintain and file financial transactions and business records truthfully, accurately,
on time and with the appropriate detail, including supporting documentation
We create and maintain accurate
• Follow relevant accounting and reporting standards and policies
financial and business records, so that
we and others in the market can rely • Follow all Meta policies and procedures for entering into contracts
on trusted and timely information
• Manage budgets and handle Company financial resources carefully and honestly, including
about Meta’s performance and cash, ad coupons and corporate credit cards
impact.
• Prevent fraud, misleading representations, and the risk of facilitating tax evasion by
carefully checking the truthfulness and accuracy of financial information, such as on
expense claims, supplier invoices and operational reports
Accurate, clear and complete records are essential
to making the best business decisions, preserving • Comply with all applicable laws, regulations and Meta policies concerning record-
our reputation for financial integrity and meeting keeping and records retention
our obligations as a public company. Meta, our
community, investors, regulators and others rely
on the information we provide to understand our
More guidance:
financial results and measure our success
as a company.
Meta Global Sourcing and Procurement Policy Approval Authority Matrix
Global Travel & Expense Policy Contract Policy
Anti-Corruption Policy Ad Coupon Policy
42Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Lead with financial integrity Do not engage in insider trading Communicate openly and transparently Prevent bribery and corruption Giving and receiving gifts and entertainment Interact with governments Build a more caring, sustainable world
Q: Q:
The fiscal quarter close is imminent. I Our supplier has called me to ask that we
am on the Revenue Accounting team pay their next invoice into an offshore
and am troubled by a request from a account. They were not clear on the reason
client account team lead. They called although they mentioned something about
me and asked if I could reverse out a it assisting their internal tax processes. I
portion of the advertising revenue from don't feel comfortable with this -what
the current quarter’s books and insisted should I do?
it should be included next quarter. Their
explanation was not clear and they
seemed reluctant to elaborate. What A:
should I do? In addition to risks like potential money
laundering via payments to offshore
accounts, the supplier here might be trying
A:
to conceal their income and evade paying
You are right to be concerned. It is
taxes. In some countries, like the UK, Meta
critically important that revenue is
and individual employees can be criminally
booked for the correct fiscal period to
prosecuted for facilitating tax evasion by
ensure the accuracy and integrity of
other parties. Facilitation can happen even
Meta’s accounts and public financial
just by ignoring suspicious requests. Ask
filings. Ask them to clarify and provide
the supplier why they are requesting this
more information. If you are still
change and do not process any payment
concerned about whether rebooking the
until you have raised this with your
revenue is authorized and proper,
manager, Finance, or Compliance & Ethics.
escalate your concern to your manager or
a member of the Compliance & Ethics
Team.
43Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Lead with financial integrity Do not engage in insider trading Communicate openly and transparently Prevent bribery and corruption Giving and receiving gifts and entertainment Interact with governments Build a more caring, sustainable world
Do not engage
Preventing insider trading
in insider trading 1/2
means we:
We do not use or share material non-public • Never trade in securities of Meta or another public company while in possession of
material non-public information concerning such securities
information about Meta or other companies
• Never give or receive “tips,” which is when material non-public information about Meta or
for trading purposes because doing so is
any company is passed to someone who is not under a duty to keep the information
illegal and would harm Meta’s relationships confidential
with investors, regulators and the public.
• Protect non-public information from leaks and accidental disclosure, inside and outside of
Meta, including by being mindful of conversation in public spaces
We are committed to protecting information that is • Review and comply with Meta’s Insider Trading Policy—there are detailed rules to know
entrusted to us, especially material non-public before trading
information about Meta or another company,
sometimes called “inside” information. For guidance on • Ask Trading@if we have doubts or questions—material non-public information is a
what constitutes material non-public information and complex concept and we understand there may be questions
other rules about trading, review our Insider Trading Policy.
Trading securities while in possession of material non-
More guidance:
public information, called “insider trading,” or providing a
family member, friend or any other person with a "tip" on Insider Trading Policy
material non-public information, is illegal.
Trading Window Calendar
Trading@
44in insider trading 2/2
Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Lead with financial integrity Do not engage in insider trading Communicate openly and transparently Prevent bribery and corruption Giving and receiving gifts and entertainment Interact with governments Build a more caring, sustainable world
I want to trade Meta stock. I don’t have any
material non-public information about Meta.
When can I trade?
You can only trade Meta stock during our quarterly
open trading windows (and as long as you do not hold
material non-public information) or through an
approved 10b5-1 trading plan. Generally, we open the
trading window on the second full business day after
our quarterly earnings release date, and the window
typically stays open through the last day of the middle
month of a quarter, though these dates are subject to
change. Before trading, you should review our Insider
Trading Policy and Trading Window Calendar on the
People Portal.
45Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Lead with financial integrity Do not engage in insider trading Communicate openly and transparently Prevent bribery and corruption Giving and receiving gifts and entertainment Interact with governments Build a more caring, sustainable world
Communicating openly and
Communicate
transparently means we:
openly and
• Are clear, truthful, transparent, courteous • Focus Company resources on impactful external
transparently
and professional in our internal and opportunities and seek approvals as required for
external communications any speaking and writing engagements
• Do not misrepresent or make false and • Remember to direct press inquiries about any
We are thoughtful and damaging statements about others Meta-business related topics that you are speaking
on to Press@.You should not engage with the
responsible in how we connect • Handle Meta’s confidential information
press on behalf of, suggest or purport to speak as a
appropriately (please see Protect Meta’s
and communicate with the world. representative of Meta. This Policy does not, and is
Confidential Information for more details)
not intended to, prevent members of our
• Make clear when writing social media posts that community from engaging in protected concerted
As Meta Personnel, everything we say and activity with the press or any other employees
they are personal opinions, so that we do not
share reflects on us individually and on Meta. related to discussing wages, benefits, or terms and
lead people to believe we are speaking for or on
Whether we are in a meeting, a café, walking conditions of employment in the US. Nor is it
behalf of Meta, unless we have received
together or communicating online, our words intended to alter your rights or Meta’s obligations
permission to do so
matter. We believe online platforms empower pursuant to applicable laws, including those relating
honest, open communication and understand • Ensure that our use and preservation of business to whistleblowing and data privacy
that information travels rapidly and communications comply with Meta policies
unpredictably. Thus, we should pause before
communicating to avoid misunderstandings
and allow our authentic voice to be heard. More guidance:
External Engagement Policy Community Engagement Expectations Press@
Electronic Communications Policy Global Audio Recording Policy
46Transparently 2/2
Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Lead with financial integrity Do not engage in insider trading Communicate openly and transparently Prevent bribery and corruption Giving and receiving gifts and entertainment Interact with governments Build a more caring, sustainable world
Always ask yourself these Q:
Q:
I am passionate about working in tech and would
questions before you click send I am active in online discussion forums
like to share my experience of working in the tech
about artificial intelligence (AI) where
or post and before you speak:
industry and support others who are doing the
I am widely respected because of my
same. I’m considering creating a YouTube channel,
technical expertise. A well-known
writing a book/blog/article, or endorsing others
author and tech industry blogger
“How will others feel when they who have shared their experiences in these ways.
reached out to me and invited me to be
Do I need to check with anyone first?
read this?” and “How would I interviewed as part of a blog feature. I
am so excited for this interview, but do
feel if this became public?”
I need to check with anyone
A:
before accepting?
It’s great that you’re passionate about working in
tech and want to share your experience. Before
embarking on these activities, you should submit
A: a request for approval under the External
We are proud of Meta colleagues and Engagement Policy. Requests must be made for
want to support them in showcasing any engagements that are directly related to
theirtalents.Beforeacceptingthe Meta or the tech industry. There may be
invitation, you should submit a request additional guidance if the opportunity is
to the External Communications approved, and you can find more information in
team to determine if this speaking the External Engagement Policy. Before engaging
opportunity is appropriate. They in a formal mentoring or advisory role for another
will have additional guidance if the individual or company, submit a conflicts of
opportunity is approved. interest request through the Conflicts Tool. You
can find more information in the Conflicts of
Interest Policyand on the Conflicts Wiki.
47Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Lead with financial integrity Do not engage in insider trading Communicate openly and transparently Prevent bribery and corruption Giving and receiving gifts and entertainment Interact with governments Build a more caring, sustainable world
Prevent bribery
Preventing bribery and
corruption means we:
and corruption 1/3
• Know enough about the people we do
• Comply with the letter and spirit of anti-
business with to determine whether
corruption, anti-bribery and anti-
We do not engage in bribery or they are government officials
kickback laws wherever we do business,
corruption and conduct business including the Foreign Corrupt Practices • Properly review and select ethical,
Act (FCPA) and the U.K. Bribery Act
trustworthy, qualified third parties and never
throughout the world using
use them to do anything improper (see
ethical practices only.
• Never offer bribes or kickbacks, or anything Collaborating Responsibly with Third Parties)
of value, to an individual or government
• Make hiring decisions based on a
official to improperly influence—or if it could
We stand against all forms of corruption, including
candidate’s qualifications, knowledge,
appear to improperly influence—a business or
offering or accepting bribes, kickbacks and other
skills and abilities—never to secure an
government decision
improper payments. Corruption divides communities,
improper advantage or for an improper
distorts free markets and undermines Meta’s
reason, such as benefiting a customer or
• Refuse all offers of bribes, kickbacks or any
commitment to promoting economic opportunity.
government official
other payments or benefits intended to
improperly influence how we make
• Maintain accurate books and records
As a global company, Meta has a responsibility to decisions at Meta
(see Lead with Financial Integrity)
help eradicate corruption across the world through
our actions and example. We will always choose to
lose business rather than secure it through a bribe,
kickback or improper payment. More guidance:
Anti-Corruption Policy Global Travel and Expense Policy
Gifts & Business Entertainment Policy
48and corruption 2/3
Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Lead with financial integrity Do not engage in insider trading Communicate openly and transparently Prevent bribery and corruption Giving and receiving gifts and entertainment Interact with governments Build a more caring, sustainable world
Remember, move
Q: A:
fast does not mean
Meta is planning to open a new data
The local government official is
center in a developing market where
requesting a facilitation or “grease” move unethically.
internet connectivity has expanded
payment to expedite the permit.
rapidly. As the Meta project
Most anti-corruption laws prohibit
manager, I am responsible for
even minor facilitation payments—
managing the permitting issues with
and so does Meta. Do not pay the
the local authorities. A local
fee and contact Legal or Compliance
government official explained that
& Ethics immediately for help.
he can expedite the permitting
process with a small one-time cash
payment. Can I make the payment?
49and corruption 3/3
Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Lead with financial integrity Do not engage in insider trading Communicate openly and transparently Prevent bribery and corruption Giving and receiving gifts and entertainment Interact with governments Build a more caring, sustainable world
Corruption red flags
Meta aims to work only with third parties who share our commitment to ethical business practices. We expect Meta Personnel and our third
parties to escalate suspicious activities or red flags to Legal or Compliance & Ethics. Keep an eye out for the following examples:
Suspicion Giving or receiving Compensation/inaccurate Questionable hiring
at onboarding improper items of value books and records: or referrals
• Current or past allegations of • Providing gifts or entertainment to • Request for commission significantly • Request to hire a government official
improper conduct, including government officials that violate our above market rate or higher than or relative for a position at Meta
improper payments Anti-Corruption Policy normal fees for services
• Hiring a contingent worker to help
• Refusal to commit to compliance • Request for substantial up-front
• Request to donate to a charity
obtain a government contract
with anti-bribery laws, including in payment
to facilitate government action
our contracts
• Refuses to properly document
• Third party recommended by a
• Refusal to identify business owners, expenses or requests to prepare
government official
partners or principals inaccurate invoices, contracts or
other documentation
• Family/business ties to a
government official in a position • Inexplicable expenses “off the books”
to benefit Meta
• Requests for payments in cash,
• Requests to hide identity or that through a third party or to an
the relationship remain secret unrelated account name or location
• Listed on a government • Poor internal controls or record-
sanctions list keeping practices
50Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Lead with financial integrity Do not engage in insider trading Communicate openly and transparently Prevent bribery and corruption Giving and receiving gifts and entertainment Interact with governments Build a more caring, sustainable world
Giving and Giving and receiving gifts and
entertainment appropriately means we:
receiving gifts and
• Offer reasonable and customary gifts, entertainment or anything else of value only where
entertainment 1/2
there is a legitimate business purpose and where the gift does not create an appearance
of impropriety
• Follow jurisdiction-specific guidelines for offering things of value to government officials
We responsibly invest in our business and request approval from Compliance & Ethics where needed
relationships but never offer or accept
• Entertain (or are entertained by) third parties within reason and in good taste (e.g.,
gifts, entertainment or anything else of reasonable meals or sporting or cultural events are generally acceptable, but skydiving or
casinos are generally not), and do not risk creating any perception of inappropriately
value to improperly influence people.
influencing future decision-making. Only accept gifts that are valued at less than 200
USD, reasonable, customary and in good taste and that will not appear to inappropriately
bias future decision-making.
Showing appreciation for a client or third party
strengthens our business relationships when done
• Do not offer or receive cash, cash equivalents (e.g., gift cards) or loans
appropriately. Exchanging gifts, entertainment
or hospitality to improperly influence business • Consult the Gifts & Business Entertainment Policyand obtain preapproval from Compliance
decisions erodes trust and leads to business & Ethics when required before giving anything of value to government officials
outcomes that don’t put the community using Meta
products and services first.
More guidance:
Gifts & Business Entertainment Policy Global Travel and Expense Policy
Anti-Corruption Policy 51entertainment 2/2
Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Lead with financial integrity Do not engage in insider trading Communicate openly and transparently Prevent bribery and corruption Giving and receiving gifts and entertainment Interact with governments Build a more caring, sustainable world
Questions to ask yourself when giving
or receiving gifts and entertainment
Q:
One of my team’s suppliers recently sent my team
1 a case of wine out of the blue, without a note. I
Am I following Meta policies, including
If the answer to any of these reached out to the supplier to thank them and get
the limits for government officials?
questions is “no,” the gift or more information about their gift. It turns out the
entertainment likely is not supplier is in the middle of an intense contract
appropriate and you should not negotiation with another Meta team
2 Is it reasonable and appropriate
give or accept it. and was hoping I might help find out more about
according to local law and custom?
the process. Knowing this, I’m not sure if I should
accept the wine.
3 Does it serve a legitimate
A:
business purpose?
Although the wine’s market value is likely less
than 200 USD, receiving it out of the blue while
the supplier is bidding for new Meta projects
4 Does it avoid the risk or perception of
may suggest the supplier hopes you’ll influence
bias for future decision-making?
the decision to select the supplier for this future
contract. Since it is not clear that the wine was
sent to promote goodwill, reach out to Compliance
5 Does it avoid the perception of & Ethics to discuss before accepting it and
improper conduct? distributing it to your team.
52Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Lead with financial integrity Do not engage in insider trading Communicate openly and transparently Prevent bribery and corruption Giving and receiving gifts and entertainment Interact with governments Build a more caring, sustainable world
Interact with
Interacting with governments and
governments and
political entities responsibly means we:
political entities
• Let colleagues with the necessary • Comply with rules related to lobbying
responsibly
experience and authority contact disclosures and campaign finance
government officials about policy, limits and disclosures as required in
legislative, regulatory or electoral matters each jurisdiction
We engage constructively and responsibly
• Comply with the Company’s Anti
with governments and political entities to • Don’t improperly use company
Corruption Policy and Political Activities
resources or time to support your
further Meta’s mission of bringing the world & Lobbying Policy, communicate
personal political activities
transparently with government officials
closer together.
and respond to their inquiries in a timely
• Make it clear that, when engaging in
and truthful manner
Meta’s global reach and continuous innovation mean that we
politics as private citizens, our views
often have to consider newly proposed laws and regulations. We
• Support political parties and their and actions are our own, not those of
engage thoughtfully, ethically and responsibly with elected
affiliated institutions’ use of Meta Meta
officials and regulators to advance Meta’s mission and protect
products neutrally and never show favor
the rights of those we empower. We also engage with political
toward one party over another
parties and candidates to help them use Meta platforms, but we
do so neutrally, treating all parties alike, respecting human rights
and abiding by our belief that we serve everyone.
More guidance:
We also believe Meta Personnel should be able to engage
personally in the civic and political process outside of work so Political Activities and Lobbying Policy Community Engagement Expectations
long as it is kept separate from Meta.
Anti-Corruption Policy
53Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Lead with financial integrity Do not engage in insider trading Communicate openly and transparently Prevent bribery and corruption Giving and receiving gifts and entertainment Interact with governments Build a more caring, sustainable world
Q:
I am a public policy researcher focused on the
regulation of fiber optics. I just learned that my
cousin’s partner has a new job at the government
agency concerned with internet service providers and
undersea cables. I decided to ask my cousin for an
introduction because I think it will be interesting to
learn more about her work and how that might affect
Meta. Is this a good idea?
A:
If you engage with your cousin’s partner and speak
about Meta, it could potentially lead into lobbying, a
complex and highly regulated activity. You should
consult with Compliance & Ethics and the Public
Policy team for guidance.
Compliance & Ethics can advise on whether local
lobbying laws come into play and whether you
should steer clear of any work-related
conversations.
The Public Policy team has the expertise and
relationships needed to engage with government.
54Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Lead with financial integrity Do not engage in insider trading Communicate openly and transparently Prevent bribery and corruption Giving and receiving gifts and entertainment Interact with governments Build a more caring, sustainable world
Building a more caring,
Build a
sustainable world means we:
more caring,
• Pursue sustainable design principles,
• Respect and promote human rights, including
standards and certifications in Meta offices
sustainable world
supporting better working conditions and
and data centers
prohibiting human trafficking across Meta and
Meta supply chains • Recycle, compost and adopt a limited-
waste approach in Meta offices and cafés
We empower people to create a • Enhance civil rights and the experiences of
• Build tools, like Charitable Giving, Crisis
marginalized communities across our policies,
better, more sustainable world Response and Blood Donations, to enable
practices, and products so that all
people to support their interests and
through actions, tools and resources communities may thrive on our technologies
passions
that have real-world impact.
• Support and invest in organizations that • Responsibly promote access to the
promote social and racial justice internet, technology and Meta platforms
to everyone around the world
As a global company with global influence, we are
• Commit to achieve net zero greenhouse gas
committed to making a difference—through our own • Foster civically engaged communities by
emissions across Meta’s global operations and
actions and by empowering others. We develop and developing tools to help people learn
be 100% supported by renewable energy
share solutions for a more sustainable world, and we about voting
bring people closer together with social impact tools
that foster strong, caring communities.
More guidance:
Meta Social Impact Grants & Donations Policy
Meta Sustainability Human Rights Policy
Civil Rights Responsible Minerals Policy 55Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Lead with financial integrity Do not engage in insider trading Communicate openly and transparently Prevent bribery and corruption Giving and receiving gifts and entertainment Interact with governments Build a more caring, sustainable world
Meta’s human rights Meta’s civil rights
commitment commitment
Meta has always been about positive Civil Rights are the rights of people
social impact. Our commitment to to be free from unfair treatment and
respect human rights helps define and discrimination.
strengthen that impact.
As a company, we must elevate civil rights principles in all that we do and
Meta is committed to respecting globally recognized human rights. commit to ensuring that our technologies are built with them in mind. Only
These include the right to privacy, freedom of expression and other then can we truly advance equity through our products and create spaces
rights as defined in the International Bill of Human Rights and set out which enhance equity, dignity, and voice for everyone. This commitment is
in the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental why Meta hired independent civil rights experts to conduct a two-year
Principles and Rights at Work. voluntary civil rights audit. As a result of this audit, in 2020, we set up our
Civil Rights Team—the only VP-led, dedicated civil rights team in the
technology industry and corporate America. The Civil Rights Team’s work is
We live this commitment through Meta’s Community Standards, our
centered on non-discrimination, fairness, and justice, which are critical to
Corporate Human Rights Policy, our product integrity work and the
building policies, products, and practices for all our users. When we build with
ways that we identify, prevent and manage human rights risks, including
civil rights in mind, we can enhance our policies, products, and practices at
risks related to arbitrary government takedown requests, supply chain
the outset so that different communities may share the same experiences on
issues, or people misusing our platforms to incite conflict. Our legal,
our platforms, rather than reinforcing the inequities of society. We believe in
policy, operations and product teams work every day to ensure we
building technologies on which all communities can thrive.
respect human rights—and it is tough, important work.
Human Rights Wiki Civil Rights Wiki
56commitment 2/2
Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Lead with financial integrity Do not engage in insider trading Communicate openly and transparently Prevent bribery and corruption Giving and receiving gifts and entertainment Interact with governments Build a more caring, sustainable world
Meta’s sustainability commitment
Meta hasmade commitments to eight areasthat impact
our individualcommunitiesandthe world:
1 Climate: reduce the Company’s 5 Collaboration: partner with
operational greenhouse gas emissions others to accelerate action on
by 75% sustainability issues
Renewable energy: committed to
2 6 Responsible supply chain: ensure fair
supporting operations with 100%
working conditions and sustainable
renewableenergy
environmental practices
3 Water stewardship: prioritize water 7 Sustainable data centers: operate some
stewardship across Meta operations of the most energy efficient data center
facilitiesintheworld
Innovation: advance innovative Sustainable workplaces: create
4 8
solutions to create a more sustainable workplaces that advance
sustainable world employee well-being
57Build Responsibly: Supporting Protecting and Competing and Engaging
Home Introduction
The Meta Code of Conduct Each Other Empowering People Collaborating with the World
Other aspects of Waivers and amendments
In rare circumstances, a waiver of this Code may be sought. Meta’s Chief Compliance Officer may
compliance and the
grant waivers to Meta Personnel other than executive officers or senior financial officers. Any
waiver or modification of this Code for a member of Meta’s Board of Directors, executive officer or
senior financial officer must be approved by the Board of Directors and promptly disclosed as may
Code of Conduct
be required pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, including the rules of the stock exchange
on which Meta’s common stock is listed for trading. Any amendment of any provision of this Code
mustbeapprovedbytheCompensation,NominatingandGovernanceCommitteeofMeta’sBoardof
Directorsor,ifappropriate,theAuditandRiskOversightCommittee,andpromptlydisclosedasmay
berequiredpursuanttoapplicablelawsandregulations.
Conflicts
If the Code is found to conflict with local laws or regulations, only the Code sections permitted by
applicable laws and regulations will apply. Please reach out to Legal if you have questions about
Code applicability or conflicts of law. Nothing in Meta’s Code or other policies is intended to
infringe upon or chill an employee’s ability to exercise their rights under the National Labor
Relations Act.
Relevant additional guidance applicable to your region or country may be available on the Wiki, and
will prevail to the extent of any inconsistencies with the guidance linked in the Code.
In the event of an inconsistency between the English version of this Code and any version of the
Code that has been translated into a different language, the English version will prevail to the
extent permitted by law.
Training
Training is essential to ensure that the Code and Meta policies referenced in it are top-of-mind in our
daily work. It is a forum in which the content in this Code comes to life and it is an important part of Meta
Personnel’s engagement with Meta’s policies. Thus, all Meta Personnel must complete required training
they are assigned, including training on the Code and Meta policies as required, and failure to do so could
result in disciplinary action or termination of employment or assignment.
58Build Responsibly:
The Meta Code of Conduct
Achieving our
mission responsibly is
everyone’s responsibility
At Meta, our reach and influence require that we
commit to and hold ourselves accountable to a high
standard, so that we can build technologies that have a
positive impact, keep people safe and serve everyone.
We all share in achieving our mission.
With this mindset and a focus on building responsibly,
we can continue to innovate with each other, our
partners and for the billions of people we serve around
the globe.
59