Integrity at HPA Message from our CEO
Ethical Leadership
Our Relationships
Our Culture
Avoid conflicts of interest
The HP Way
Engage responsible third parties
Act with integrity
Never bribe or participate in kickbacks
Win the right way
Know the rules about gifts, meals,
How to raise a concern
entertainment, and travel
Our Promise
Compete fairly
Integrity at HP
Respect human rights
Putting customers first
Enable trust
Know the rules about importing and
Respect others
exporting
Our Company
Our Impact
Promote a safe HP
Minimize our environmental footprint
Protect our assets
Make a difference
Keep accurate records
Policies
Do not trade on material non-public
information
Resources
Speaking on behalf of HPA message from our CEO
One of our greatest strengths as a company is the
uncompromising integrity that underpins everything we do.
Together, we have built a purpose-driven brand that is trusted by
people around the world.
But we can never take this for granted. I have always believed
that how we do things is just as important as what we do.
We must never lose sight of the values and culture that have
made us the company we are today. It’s important that we take
time to reflect on our values, and learn how to apply them in an
increasingly complex world.
Each and every one of us are stewards of the HP brand – and
have an important role to play. Thank you for everything you are
doing to enable our success.
If we continue to lead with integrity and live up to the values,
there is nothing we can’t achieve.
Enrique Lores
President & CEOEthical Leadership
HP is a company grounded in integrity, trust, and
honesty. How we do things is as important as what we
do. Our commitment to an ethical culture is demonstrated
by our multi-year recognition as one of the World’s Most
Ethical Companies® by the Ethisphere Institute. This honor
validates that the HP Way is lived out through our
commitment to people, planet, and the community.
Integrity at HP is our code of conduct that provides us with
the guidance and confidence we need to make the right
choices, no matter our role or where we are in the world. If
you need more guidance after reading our code of
conduct, please reach out to the Ethics and Compliance
Office using one of the many avenues provided.
Together, we can continue to win with purpose and
integrity.
Cynthia Bright
Chief Ethics & Compliance OfficerOur CultureThe HP Way
We lead with ambition We focus on
and agility customers first
Seek insights
Defy the status quo
Solve big problems
Move fast, learn, adapt
Deliver on commitments
Innovate with impact
We win with purpose and We grow
integrity together
Act with uncompromising ethics Champion diversity and inclusion
Strengthen communities Collaborate for best results
and human rights
Have brave conversations
Advance equity and sustainabilityAct with integrity
Integrity at HP is a resource for all employees and members of our Board of Directors. It represents the
highest level of guidance for our conduct on behalf of HP.
As an employee, you are expected to: If you are a manager, you must also:
• Act with uncompromising integrity: demonstrate • Be an ethical leader: use your good judgment and the Headline
your commitment to our values, policies, and Test to ensure your actions demonstrate the highest standards
the law by always putting integrity first. of ethical behavior.
• Raise a concern: every employee is expected to • Be a resource: know Integrity at HP values and expectations so
report any suspected misconduct immediately. you can reinforce them with your team and answer employee
questions.
• Cooperate: comply with all internal
investigations and audits. • Open your door: encourage employees to come to you if they
want to talk or have questions.
• Build trust: take employee concerns seriously, provide guidance,
and take appropriate action to prevent, detect, and respond to
misconduct and ask for help if needed.
• Never retaliate: do not retaliate (or let others retaliate) against
anyone who raises a concern.
• Escalate: every people manager is required to report any
suspected violation of Integrity at HP or other misconduct
immediately.Act with integrity
The Headline Test Integrity in action
The Headline Test is a simple but powerful tool designed to
ensure we appropriately consider the soundness and
Q: MMyy m maannaagegre sru sguggegsteesdt Ie ddo Is doom ething
impact of our business decisions.
sthoamt seetehminsg t oth vaiotl asteee omurs p tooli cviieosla. Itt efe els
wrong, but I am afraid I will be fired if I do
our policies. It feels wrong, but I am
not do what she asks. Should I just go
afraid I will be fired if I do not do
along with it?
what she asks. Should I just go
along with it?
No, you should not. No one at HP has the
authority to direct you to do something
A: Nthoa,t y voioula stheso uouldr npooltic. Nieos oorn teh ea lta HwP.
hBaefso trhe ey oauu athcot, rrietvyi etow dInirteegcrti tyyo aut HtoP . If
dthoe saocmtioent sheinegm tsh warto vnigo,l alette yso uoru r
manager know you cannot do it and
policies or the law. Before you act,
why. If your manager insists, or if you
review Integrity at HP. If the action
are uncomfortable approaching your
seems wrong, let your manager
manager directly, share your concerns
know you cannot do it and why. If
with another member of management
your manager insists, or if you are
or another internal resource right away.
uncomfortable approaching your
manager directly, share your
concerns with another member of
management or another internal
resource right away.Win the right way
Follow Integrity at HP, our policies, and the law.
Maintain high standards. When someone violates Integrity at Everyone who works at HP has a responsibility to:
HP, other HP policies, or the law, it may result in disciplinary
• Participate fully and honestly with investigations and
action, up to and including termination. Certain violations
audits.
can have additional consequences, such as misconduct
• Cooperate with Legal or your designated legal support
reportable to a government agency. All of us have a
to respond to litigation or requests from government
responsibility to do our part to protect our reputation and
our company. and other external agencies.
• Never act in any manner that would interfere with an
Take action when aware of misconduct. Every employee is
investigation, including destroying or fabricating
expected to report any alleged misconduct immediately.
evidence, intimidating witnesses, or improperly
Use the Open Door Policy to raise concerns — managers
disclosing information in a manner that impedes a fair
must encourage open and honest communication.
review.
Never retaliate. HP does not tolerate retaliation against
• Follow instructions to retain and not alter or destroy
anyone who raises a concern or asks a question. Every HP
records in response to litigation, investigations, or
employee must feel free to speak out about potential
audits.
Integrity at HP violations without fear of retaliation.
Cooperate with investigations. Reports of misconduct are
reviewed, investigated if appropriate, and treated
confidentially to the extent possible to conduct a fair and
appropriate investigation.How to raise a concern
At HP, we believe everyone’s voice should be heard. It is important that you know there are resources available if you have a
question or concern. If you believe someone may have violated Integrity at HP, our policies, or the law, you are expected to
speak up immediately, and we offer a variety of ways to do so.
Your manager is usually the best place to start. When it is not possible to raise or resolve an issue with your immediate
manager, use the HP Global Open Door Policy to discuss it with:
• Ethics and Compliance Office:
• Another leader
• Online web form
• The People Organization
• Telephone: from anywhere in the world,
• Legal or your designated
call the in-country phone line to report Regardless of the resource
legal support
• Your Integrity at HP country concerns. The phone line is available 24 you contact, you can be
hours a day and supports anonymous
team assured that your concern will
reporting. To find your in-country phone
• Your business group or be handled promptly and
line, select your country from the “Call
market Integrity at HP liaison
appropriately.
Us” dropdown list.
• Internal Audit
• Via mail:
HP Inc.
Ethics and Compliance Office
1501 Page Mill Road, Mailstop 1560
Palo Alto, CA 94304-1112
United StatesOur PromiseRespect human rights
Conduct business in a way that respects human rights.
Respect fundamental rights and freedoms. Our commitment to Live up to our values. We carry out human rights due
upholding human rights is a core value at HP, shaping how we do diligence across our business to identify, investigate,
business globally. We are committed to respecting prevent, and mitigate adverse human rights impacts. This
internationally-recognized human rights*. Our goal is to create includes impacts that we may cause or contribute to
positive impacts for people, society, and business, while through our own activities, or those which may be directly
mitigating risk and preventing harm. To accomplish this, we linked to our operations, products or services by our
must prioritize communication, clarity, and accountability business relationships. We engage and collaborate with
across HP. individuals and stakeholders to develop, implement, and
monitor our approach. We also require our partners and
Raise a concern. HP does not tolerate retaliation against anyone
suppliers to uphold respect for human rights through our
who raises a concern. If you believe your rights have been
programs and contracts.
infringed upon or you see retaliation happen to someone else,
report to your manager or to another internal resource. HP
Our performance is shared in HP’s annual Sustainable
promptly investigates allegations and will take action when
Impact Report and through other mandatory and
appropriate to remedy any adverse impact on someone’s rights.
voluntary reporting channels.
*HP commits to respecting human rights as expressed in Examples of key human rights:
the International Bill of Human Rights and the principles • Favorable working conditions • Rest and leisure (working hours)
concerning fundamental rights set out in the International • Fair and equitable treatment • Privacy
Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental • Nondiscrimination • Freedom from modern slavery
Principles and Rights at Work.Enable trust
Maintain an environment with trusted digital experiences and data practices
As an HP employee, you are committed to following HP’s corporate privacy
What is “personal data?”
compliance framework. Failure to adhere to HP’s Global Master Privacy
Policy, HP’s Binding Corporate Rules, or any other privacy policy or process
“Personal data” is anything that could be used
may lead to corrective action, up to and including termination.
to identify someone, either directly or
indirectly, such as a name, email address,
Respect privacy and personal data. We recognize that privacy is a
phone number, credit card number,
fundamental human right. We also know that privacy, security, and data
government ID number, location data (GPS, IP
protection are increasingly important to maintaining the trust of our
address), or device serial number.
employees, customers, and partners worldwide. As an HP employee, you must
follow our policies and all applicable laws in collecting, accessing, using,
“Sensitive data” is a subset of personal data
storing, sharing, and disposing of personal data. Be transparent about HP’s
that requires additional safeguards. It is
practices and provide privacy preference options to the individuals you work
categorized as a specific set of personal
with. Use personal information only for legitimate HP business purposes.
data that must be protected against
unwarranted disclosure or unauthorized
Go beyond compliance. As we engage in automated processing capabilities,
access, including racial or ethnic origin,
big data analytics, and machine learning —while relying on artificial
political opinions, religious or philosophical
intelligence for decision making —we are committed to applying principles of
beliefs, children’s data, health information,
integrity and inclusion in our data governance.
sexual orientation, gender identification, or
biometric data. Some jurisdictions may also
Act responsibly when sharing personal data. We are committed to sharing
consider precise location and financial data
data responsibly within our business operation. Personal data should only be
as sensitive information.
shared when a third party signs a contract that ensures they will provide
equal levels of data protection. We do not, and will not, sell personal data to
third parties.Enable trust
Integrity in action
Where are our risks?
• Partnering with third party websites and
One of our team members recently had a
applications — HP‘s brand is at stake if they are
baby and I wanted to send her a card to
non-compliant
congratulate her on the new addition. My
• Using personal data in ways beyond the intended manager said she could not provide my
purpose colleague’s home address. It is just a
• Accidently sharing personal data to unintended greeting card — is this taking privacy too
audiences far?
• “Free” or individually purchased internet hosting,
No. Even though this is a kind gesture,
collaboration, or cloud services — we cannot
your manager has an obligation to
guarantee data privacy
protect this information. You could
• Social engineering — when you are asked to share
contact your colleague through your
personal information, first authenticate the request
work email to ask for her address
• Using customer lists with unclear contact directly, or you could wait until she has
preference returned to work to offer your best.
wishes.Respect others
Treat all people – inside and outside the company – with fairness, dignity, and respect.
Embrace our diversity. HP values diversity, equity and
Promote trust and respect. Promote and encourage an
inclusion, and individual differences —including those
inclusive work environment, free of harassment. Do
based in race, ethnicity, gender, nationality, ability, military
not behave in a disrespectful, hostile, violent,
status, religion, generation, or sexual orientation. We
intimidating, threatening, or harassing manner. HP
engage top industry talent to drive our company’s long-
does not tolerate any form of sexual harassment,
term success. HP benefits from the creativity and
including unwanted sexual advances, requests for
innovation of employees with different experiences,
sexual favors, the display of sexually explicit materials,
perspectives, and cultures working together.
or any other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual
nature.
Focus on fairness. Practice equal opportunity in every
action and embrace the diversity of all HP employees. As
stated in HP’s policies, do not discriminate against any What is HP’s work environment?
HP’s work environment is defined as anywhere
employee or applicant based on gender, color, race,
HP employees are conducting business on HP’s
ethnicity, national origin, religion, age, marital status,
behalf, including in person by phone, in virtual
sexual orientation, gender identity and expression,
meeting spaces, through email or other internet
disability, pregnancy, covered veteran status, protected
communication channels, on HP premises and
genetic information and political affiliation. at company-sponsored events, or during travel
on behalf of HP.Respect others
Integrity in action
A woman on my team just confided in
Watch out for … me about her manager who, despite
prior refusals, continues asking her on
• Inappropriate behavior that includes sharing
dates. She even asked me to walk out of
derogatory texts, emails, or gestures based on a the office with her at the end of the day.
protected class She is obviously uncomfortable but
• Unwanted sexual advances says she doesn’t want to report it.
Should I respect her wishes?
• Threats, assaults, or name-calling
• Jokes or comments that are inappropriate or
Not in this case. Despite what your
offensive
colleague says, she may be
experiencing harassment in violation of
HP’s policies. Speak up about this
situation immediately by contacting the
People Organization, another manager,
or contacting the Ethics and
Compliance Office..Our CompanyPromote a safe HP
Put the safety and security of people first.
Prevent safety risks. Comply with safety, health, and security policies
How to prevent viruses and breaches
and procedures. Be proactive in preserving your safety and the
safety of those around you. Do not sell, possess, or use illegal drugs • Never share your password(s) with anyone
or create a safety risk through drug use or intoxication while on HP
• Secure your workstation when you step away
property or while conducting HP business. If you see a situation that
• Only use hardware and software provided or
could put others at risk, report it to your manager.
approved by HP
Keep HP violence-free. Threats, acts of violence, and physical
• Never download or use pirated software or
intimidation have no place at HP. Follow good security practices and
software from unapproved sources
be aware of your environment. Immediately contact your manager or
• Never access our network via unauthorized
another internal resource about any situation that could jeopardize
safety at HP. devices or applications
• Be alert to phishing scams — do not open
Prevent system breaches. Keeping our systems safe from
suspicious links or attachments in emails
inappropriate access and disclosure is everyone’s responsibility. We
• Secure your home office and network
all must understand HP data security policies, standards, and
specifications. Never provide access to our systems or sensitive • Never use untrusted USB drives – they may
data to anyone unless you can provide the information securely while
contain viruses
following HP’s official processes and procedures.You must also be
• Never allow unauthorized individuals to use your
sure that the recipient: is who they claim to be, is authorized to have
work devices (including friends and family)
access, and has a valid business need.Protect our assets
Preserve our competitive advantage in the marketplace.
Safeguard our physical assets. It is important to do your Safeguard sensitive information. Information about
part to protect HP assets — including phones and our company, products, customers, business
computers — from theft, loss, damage, and waste. Never partners, suppliers, and processes are our most
use HP assets to promote your personal interests or allow valuable assets. To protect our sensitive
other people, such as friends or family, to use HP information, you should always:
resources. Additionally, you should follow HP procedures
• Label it properly
for reuse, redeployment, and return of all work equipment
• Use it only for business purposes
upon leaving HP.
• Share it only with those who have a legitimate
Safeguard our electronic assets. Be responsible when you business need, is an authorized party, and/or
use HP hardware, software, voicemail, and email. Keep have a signed Confidential Disclosure
personal use to a minimum and never use our systems to Agreement (CDA)
violate the law. • Properly store sensitive information and dispose
of it appropriately when no longer needed
Safeguard the HP brand. The HP brand is our corporate
• Encrypt sensitive information and protect it with
identity and an integral part of our intellectual property,
role-based access controls
and therefore it holds significant value. Any use of our
brand by anyone outside of HP must be reviewed and
approved by the appropriate HP group. Each of us has a
duty to protect our brand by following the brand
You should never take HP’s sensitive
standards.
information with you if you leave HP. You
should also never post our sensitive
information on social media.Protect our assets
Which label should you use for HP sensitive How do we protect our intellectual property?
information?
• Patents to protect inventions
• Internal Use Only: information intended for • Trademarks to protect the HP brand
widespread distribution within HP.
• Copyrights to protect software,
• HP Confidential: information that may be shared
documents, images, and videos
with limited audiences within HP based on a
• Domain registrations to protect domain
business need to know. The information may be
names
shared outside HP by those authorized to disclose
• Agreement regarding confidential
it, and in compliance with HP policies.
• Private: information prepared for HP’s executives information and proprietary
and other top managers. This information must be developments signed by all employees at
handled so as to ensure access is only by those the time of hire
authorized by the HP executive or other functional
owner of the information.Protect our assets
Where is the risk? Integrity in action
• Sending work emails containing sensitive
information to your personal email account
As part of my responsibilities at HP, I have
been doing research and have results that I
• Discussions about sensitive information in public
want to share or publish in a technical journal.
places, such as planes, elevators, and
The results may be useful in improving HP
restaurants
products and are not publicly known. Is it OK to
post the results publicly or submit the results
• Borrowing or using HP assets to conduct non-HP
to a journal as part of a research paper?
business without prior approval
No. Since the results of the research are not
• Phishing messages impersonating customers,
publicly known, the information would be
partners, employees, tech support, etc.
considered HP Confidential Information
under HP’s Confidential Information Policy. In
• Using personal or unapproved cloud services to
addition, because these results have value,
store HP data
they may also be considered a trade secret.
Additionally, if you have invented patentable
• Using unapproved Instant Messaging platforms
technology, the rights for HP to secure a
for confidential business communications
patent may be destroyed by disclosing the
invention..
• Downloading or using pirated software or
software from unapproved sourcesKeep accurate records
Make business decisions based on complete and accurate information.
Insist on accurate business records.* Accurate
records are essential to how we manage our
business, maintain compliance with financial
reporting regulations, and uphold credibility with our
customers and our stakeholders. It’s important that
*Business records are valuable HP information
you create business records that accurately reflect
assets that are created, received, and
the truth of the underlying transaction or event.
maintained as evidence of HP’s business
transactions or compliance with legal
Ensure the financial policies and reporting
obligations. These assets include time sheets,
guidelines in the Accounting and Finance Manual
purchase orders, invoices, expense reports,
are followed. Obtain approvals where required and
emails, and regulatory filings.
be prepared to provide supporting documentation.Keep accurate records
Stay alert. If accessing records is a regular part of
What is “channel stuffing?”
your job, watch for any irregularities that might
Channel stuffing occurs when a company sells more
signal fraud, bribery, or other illegal activity. This
products into a distribution channel than required by
includes false entries, discrepancies, omissions,
customers in the market to inflate sales and earnings.
misleading entries, or unrecorded funds. Raise a
concern about any unusual activity immediately. • Channel stuffing creates the appearance of demand
in a given channel or market that does not actually
Employees who have questions about records
exist.
should contact the Records Information
Management team or their department’s Records
• This typically occurs just before quarter-end or year-
Coordinator or Records Officer.
end so that sales quotas can be reached.
• Sales targets can be unfairly rewarded: for example,
You must not: when a surplus of goods develops, the value of goods
is actually reduced.
• Establish any off-the-books funds or undisclosed or
What are the potential consequences for HP?
unrecorded assets or liabilities
• Channel stuffing leads to inaccurate records.
• Backdate contracts or other documents
• Channel stuffing undermines trust in the company
• Create side letters or side agreements
brand, which encourages partners and customers to
• Sign documents that you are not authorized to sign
shift toward competitors.
• Alter records or make false or misleading entriesKeep accurate records
Preserve materials subject to legal hold. Do not delete
Integrity in action
or destroy any records or materials that are subject
to a legal hold or relate to ongoing litigation,
investigation, or audit. Be sure you suspend any
In compiling end-of-quarter data, my
manual or automated practices that might lead to the
manager directed me to change
deletion or destruction of any such records or
information on an invoice that I don’t
materials. Employees departing HP whose records
think is accurate. She did not provide me
are on legal hold — or the managers of these
with any documentation to support this
employees — must contact the Litigation Department
change. What should I do?
prior to deleting or destroying any information.
You have a responsibility to be honest
and to record information in a way that
How long should I keep “non-records?” fully and accurately reflects every
If it is not a record, do not keep information transaction. Ask your manager for the
longer than two years unless there is a valid supporting documentation. If she does
business need to keep the information or the not provide it, report the issue to
information is subject to a legal hold. another member of management or
internal resource.Do not trade on material non-public information
Protect confidential information and never use it to make trades or tip others.
Know what to protect. Material, non-public
Do not trade or tip on it. If you come across
information is any information (positive or
inside information through your work or through
negative) about HP, our customers, or
another person — even if it is just something you
business partners that is not publicly
overheard — do not trade on it. It is also
available but might be useful to an investor
important that you do not share this information
or that changes the total mix of available
with anyone, including family or friends. This
information. You might have access to this
activity is called “tipping,” which is another form
information through your role and it is your
of illegal insider trading.
responsibility to keep it confidential. Using
this kind of information to trade is called
Understand the rules. Familiarize yourself with
insider trading, which is illegal and unfair to
the HP Insider Trading Policy. Even exercising
other investors. Insider trading has serious
employee stock options may be considered a
consequences, including potential civil and
“trade,” so follow the rules about quarterly
criminal prosecution of you and HP.
trading restrictions and windows. Contact
insidertrading.compliance@hp.com if you have
questions.Do not trade on material non-public information
Integrity in action
My work involves mergers and
acquisitions. I mentioned a possible new
Inside information includes information such as:
acquisition to my husband over dinner
but cautioned him not to share the
• Earnings information
information with anyone else. Did I do
• Forecasts
anything wrong?
• New product offerings
• Business strategies
Yes, it is important to keep inside
• Potential mergers, sales, or acquisitions
information private, even from family
• Management changes
and friends. If your husband trades
based on this information or shares the
information with someone else
(“tipping”), he — and you — could violate
our policies and the law.Speaking on behalf of HP
Allow only authorized individuals to speak for our company.
Integrity in action
Rely on the experts. HP has designated individuals to speak on
behalf of our company to ensure that all information disclosed
about HP is accurate, consistent, and complete. Unless you are I recently read a blog by an industry
authorized to do so, you should not make any public statements
insider. He mentioned some features
on HP’s behalf and should refer all HP business-related
about an upcoming HP product release
communications from investors, analysts, and the media to HP
that was incorrect. I was part of the team
Investor Relations or HP Corporate Communications.
that developed the product, and I am
Use social media wisely. In any online communication platform knowledgeable about the product. Is it
(including user forums, blogs, chat rooms, bulletin boards, and OK for me to post a comment on his blog
other social media), you should understand and follow HP’s since I have firsthand knowledge to
policies regarding the use of social media. You must make it share?
clear on your social media that your views are your own. With HP-
related communication, you should never give the impression
No. You should refer information about
that you are speaking on behalf of HP unless you have been
the blog to HP Corporate
authorized to do so. You should not disclose sensitive or
Communications at
proprietary business information about HP, our customers,
mediarelations@hp.com and allow them
suppliers, or other business partners. You must never use slurs,
to speak on HP’s behalf.
insults, obscenities, or other words that might constitute a threat,
intimidation, harassment, or bullying.Our RelationshipsAvoid conflicts of interest
Make decisions that are in HP’s best interest.
Proactively address potential conflicts of interest. We all have activities, interests, and
relationships outside of HP, but they should never influence or appear to influence the
decisions we make on behalf of HP. It is your responsibility to recognize and avoid situations
that could be perceived as a conflict of interest. If you are unsure, discuss the situation with
your manager and consult HP’s Conflicts of Interest Policy.
How can potential conflicts of interest arise?
• Outside employment — or conducting non-HP business — with an HP business partner, supplier,
channel partner, or customer
• Investing or having a financial interest in an HP business partner, supplier, channel partner, or
customer
• Having family or close personal relationships within HP
• Pursuing a business opportunity that you learned about through your work at HP
• Service on a board of directors or as advisor of an organizationAvoid conflicts of interest
Integrity in action
What are “financial interests?”
“Financial interests” include investment, ownership,
and creditor interests, as well as any other financial
I am planning to start a side business,
arrangement that provides a share of profits or
marketing a product that I developed on
revenues.
my own time. Are there any conflict of
interest concerns with this?
Who are “immediate family members?”
It depends on the nature of the product.
Immediate family members include spouses,
If it does not compete with what HP sells
domestic partners, parents, step-parents, children,
and you do not use HP’s time, resources,
step-children, siblings, and in-laws, as well as anyone or business relationships in support of
your business, it is likely OK. The best
residing in an immediate family member's home other
strategy is to review the HP Conflicts of
than a tenant or employee.
Interest Policy, disclose your plans with
your manager, and obtain approval in
What are close personal relationships?” writing, if needed. And remember, any
outside pursuit should not interfere with
Close personal relationships include romantic
the time, talent, or passion you bring to
relationships but may also include other relationships
your work at HP.
as well, particularly financial relationships such as
partners in ownership of a business or property.Engage responsible third parties
Hold our business partners to the same high ethical standards we set for ourselves.
Source responsibly. We must ensure that our partners share
Integrity in action
our commitment to conducting business with integrity. HP’s
third parties should uphold our high standards in ethics,
human rights, diversity, management, health, safety, and the
I just learned that one of our channel
environment. Our partners and suppliers must meet our
partners was accused of bribing one of
quality, delivery, service, and pricing standards.
their customers. The allegation has not
Communicate our expectations. We all must comply with HP’s been proven, and it does not involve HP.
Global Procurement Policy and all applicable onboarding Should I do anything?
processes when we engage with third parties. All contracts
with third parties must be in writing and clearly describe their Yes. Any potential violation of the law or
obligations and ours. We have a responsibility to monitor HP policy by a third party is cause for
contractual arrangements and promote compliance with the concern. You should share this
law and our policies. Report any HP policy violation concerns information with your manager or Legal
by business partners or suppliers and terminate contracts as soon as possible.
with partners who fail to address violations of our standards.
Third parties include: vendors, suppliers, consultants,
contractors, contingent workers, an agent, or any third
party doing business on behalf of HP.Never bribe or participate in kickbacks
Always behave with uncompromising integrity in our business dealings. Regardless of local practice or the practices of
other companies, we never engage in corrupt behavior and we avoid even the appearance of impropriety.
Maintain integrity at all costs. Never offer or give anything of Monitor third parties. We are responsible for the
value to win or retain business, or to secure an improper actions of third parties that conduct business on
advantage — even if it means losing business. Offers of behalf of HP. When you hire third parties, follow
anything of value to win business are considered bribery. approved onboarding processes, set clear
Never offer money or something of value to a third party in expectations, and actively manage their work.
exchange for something else, such as a discount, favor, or Ensure our discounts, rebates, commissions, or
preferential treatment. This is considered a kickback. We other HP funds — such as Market Development
never offer or receive bribes and do not permit kickbacks. Funds — will not be used as bribes on our behalf.
You may not use third parties to take actions
Do not make facilitation payments. A facilitation payment is a
that we cannot otherwise take ourselves. Also,
small payment of cash or something of value made to a
do not ignore "red flags" that indicate a third
government official to secure or speed up the performance of
party may be making illegal payments or engage
a routine government action. Any requests for a facilitation
in corrupt behavior on HP's behalf.
payment or any facilitation payments made under duress
must be reported immediately.
Additional rules for healthcare. Special kickback
Speak up. Report any request for — or offer of — a bribe or rules may apply to healthcare professionals and
kickback to your manager, Legal, or the Ethics and customers. Be sure to check and follow HP
Compliance Office. policies when giving anything of value to the
healthcare sector.Never bribe or participate in kickbacks
Integrity in action
Can you recognize a bribe?
A bribe can happen in many forms, including:
A long-time, trusted partner is bidding for a
contract with a public sector entity and
A payment
•
requested a steeper discount than normal.
A gift The partner indicated the discount will offset
•
“extra costs,” but refused to provide any
A favor
• further explanation. Does this raise any red
flags?
A job offer
•
Yes. Any request for a discount must follow
Entertainment or travel offer
•
HP sales policies and be accompanied by a
detailed business justification. Requests for
Even a charitable or political contribution could be
additional discounts or compensation, no
considered a bribe if it influences a decision.
matter how small, should be carefully
examined. If you have any reason to believe
the partner may be using the additional
funds to bribe government officials, you
must deny the request.Know the rules about gifts, meals, entertainment, and travel
Only provide and accept gifts, meals, entertainment, and travel when it’s appropriate.
Comply with our policies. Give and receive gifts,
Meet our obligations. Make sure you check allowable
meals, travel, and entertainment only if it
limits and obtain any approvals required by our
complies with the HP Global Business Amenities
policies prior to giving or receiving gifts, meals,
Policy. We should avoid even the appearance of a
entertainment, or travel. Know that the rules for
business decision being influenced by what we
what you give to government and healthcare
gave or received.
representatives are stricter than those in the
commercial sector, and the government and
All gifts or entertainment must:
healthcare representative rules vary by country.
• Be intended only to improve HP’s image, better You are also responsible for maintaining accurate
represent products and services, or foster goodwill records — as required by HP policy — for any gifts,
in business meals, entertainment, or travel. Requests for
• Appear reasonable and legitimate to an outsider reimbursement must follow HP's employee expense
• Never be given in exchange for something in return management process. Gifts, meals, entertainment,
• Never be solicited and travel submitted for reimbursement must be
• Not violate the policies of the recipient’s accurately classified and include all required
organization information, including attendees.Know the rules about gifts, meals, entertainment, and travel
How do I know if a gift is acceptable?
Integrity in action
Reasonable gifts offered in the normal course of business can
be perfectly acceptable, but any offer that creates a sense of
obligation or would appear improper is always inappropriate.
During a discussion of a new tender
Do not take a risk — always ask your manager or Legal if you opportunity, a prospective customer
are unsure. mentioned that he supports the same local
football club as me. I have two tickets to an
upcoming game that I won’t be able to use.
Examples of inappropriate business amenities: The tickets are not expensive. May I offer
them to the customer?
• Any amenity that creates an appearance of impropriety,
undue influence, or conflict of interest No. Since the prospective customer is not
• Cash, loans, stock, cash-equivalent gift cards (AMEX and attending with you, this is considered a gift.
While a meal or meeting to discuss a bid
VISA), precious metals, or gemstones
may be acceptable, we prohibit gifts during
• Any item that is illegal or sexually explicit
bids or contract negotiations. Even if the
• Any gift that violates the recipient’s gift policies
tickets are inexpensive, if you offer them
• Any item provided in exchange for an improper advantage during a competitive bidding process, it
• Gifts provided during a competitive bid process or could create the appearance that we are
trying to improperly influence the
contract negotiation
prospective customer’s decision.
• Business amenities provided or received through a third
party that the policy would otherwise prohibit you to
receive directlyCompete fairly
Win the right way by marketing responsibly and competing vigorously and lawfully.
Honor our legacy. At HP, we work fairly and Avoid improper agreements. We conduct business
passionately. We compete based on the merits of our ethically, never entering into any improper agreement
products and services and avoid any conduct that with a competitor, customer, supplier, or other
could restrict fair trade. business partner — either formally or informally —
about pricing, margins, costs, terms or conditions of
Follow the law and HP policies. Countries around the sale, and wages, or the division of customers,
world have antitrust and competition laws, and suppliers, or markets. An improper agreement can be
violations can result in significant legal consequences inferred from the behavior of two parties — it does not
for HP and for you. Be sure you understand and follow need to be specifically expressed.
the antitrust and competition laws in the countries
where we operate. What’s an “improper agreement?”
It can be:
Antitrust laws govern HP’s interactions with: • An informal understanding
• Verbal, not written
• Partners
• Nonverbal (e.g., a wink/nod)
• Competitors and potential competitors
• Inferred behavior (disclosing future market conduct,
• Customers
influencing the conduct of competitors, or exchanging
• Suppliers and other vendors
views on competitively sensitive subjects)
• Alliances
• Silence, followed by subsequent parallel action
• Accomplished through a third party, such as common
customerCompete fairly
Bid fairly. Bid rigging happens when competitors Obtain business intelligence appropriately. We
have a responsibility to protect the confidential
manipulate bidding to limit competition. It can
information of our former employers and to honor
include comparing bids, agreeing not to bid, or
any disclosure limitations of which you may be
agreeing on who will submit the winning bid. If you
subject. Do not use or share any confidential
are involved in the bid preparation process, comply
information from a former employer with HP. Also,
with the law and our policies.
it’s important that you do not hide your identity or
ties to HP when gathering information.
Market fairly. When you speak with customers —
whether in-person or through our advertising,
Be aware of agreements that discuss:
marketing, or sales materials — provide only truthful
information about our products. Do not make false • Prices and pricing elements, including
or illegal claims about our competitors and never discounts, rebates, and terms
use deception or misrepresentation to gain an • Preventing a company from entering the
unfair advantage over them. market
• Refusing to deal with a customer or supplier
• Limiting production, sales, or output
• Market or customer allocation
• Bid riggingCompete fairly
Integrity in action
Competitively sensitive information should not be
shared with competitors. This includes:
• Customer-specific or product-specific pricing I was at an industry conference and during a
lunch break, a group of competitors started
information that is either current or future-focused
sharing pricing information to level the
• Sharing aggregated, historical, and non-customer
playing field for everyone participating in an
or product-specific pricing information is generally upcoming bid for ABC Corporation. I did not
lower risk if competitors are not able to discern participate in the conversation, since I knew it
was wrong. Did I handle the situation
specific product line or customer information
correctly?
• Confidential future product roadmaps
• Sharing historical or high-level product roadmaps is You did not participate — which is good — but
if you do not speak up about what
generally lower risk if competitors cannot discern
happened, others may think you were
the confidential business strategy
complicit in the discussion. The best action
• Customer pipeline or prospect information
would be to stop the conversation, remove
• Any other competitively-sensitive information prior yourself from the situation, and report the
incident to Legal. In addition, if you heard
to counsel consultation
competitors’ pricing information, you should
not participate in HP’s bid for business with
ABC Corporation.Putting customers first
Insist on a high standard of quality.
Grey markets are created when HP products
are made available for sale outside normal
Meet or exceed industry standards — and customer
distribution channels and/or shipped across
expectations. We all have a responsibility to deliver an
international borders in violation of channel
exceptional customer experience by prioritizing quality in
partner/reseller contract terms and conditions.
everything we do. We only promise what we can deliver,
In some parts of the world, grey marketing is
and we deliver what we promise. We use due diligence
referred to as “leakage.”
when we select our business partners and suppliers to
ensure they meet HP standards. Always remember that
HP products stand for quality.
Integrity in action
Market responsibly. We must represent our products and
services fairly, accurately, and truthfully. We must not
create misleading impressions in any advertising,
marketing, or sales materials, or in any presentations, and I received a large order from an HP partner,
we must not make false or illegal claims about competitors and the partner has requested a large
or their products and services. We protect the HP brand discount. Since I have done business with
and marks and use them only with the proper this partner many times, do I have to verify
authorization. the end user?
Do not grey market. We must use due diligence to prevent
Yes. To ensure that HP products do not end
situations that may lead to the grey marketing of HP
up in the grey market, HP policies require
products. This includes complying with HP policies on end
verification that there is a legitimate end
user customer verification.
user for discounted deals and that the end
user has a need for the quantity of the
product listed on the order.Know the rules about importing and exporting
Comply with applicable laws as they relate to international trade.
Stay informed. As a global company, we must comply with Follow our processes. Operating a multinational
all international trade laws and regulations to protect our
corporation requires all of us to know and abide by HP’s
ability to buy, sell, and trade goods and services in
Global Trade Policies. Across the company, we must:
countries around the world. Abiding by global trade laws
Conduct the necessary due diligence to ensure that
and regulations enables us to obtain and retain the •
government authorizations required to develop our our products are not used for sanctioned activities,
products and expedite deliveries to our customers, while such as nuclear proliferation or prohibited weapons
preventing financial and criminal penalties for
development.
noncompliance.
Remember that every product and service marketed
•
Beware of requests to participate in boycotts. Obtain and by HP — along with the related technical information —
maintain the appropriate import, export, and customs must be reviewed and assigned the appropriate
documentation and records. Respond to trade-related
import and export classifications by the Global Trade
boycott requests only as permitted by HP Global Trade
team prior to the transaction.
Policies.
Understand that all customers, partners, and
•
Comply with immigration laws. You have a responsibility to business transactions must be screened to confirm
obtain proper authorizations (including work permits and
that we do not engage in unauthorized transactions
visas) for any countries in which you work on behalf of HP.
with sanctioned parties or countries subject to trade
embargoes.
Rely on HP Global Trade. This team helps our businesses and functions successfully learn, implement, update, and comply with the necessary global
trade programs for each organization within our company and in each country where HP does business. Ask our Global Trade experts about any
issues related to the international trade of goods, services, and technology. This ensures that the appropriate internal controls are implemented in
the organization and documented in our business processes and procedures. All questions or noncompliance concerns should be immediately
escalated to the Global Trade team.Our ImpactMinimize our environmental footprint
Drive toward a net zero carbon and fully regenerative economy while creating the industry’s most
sustainable portfolio of products and solutions.
Embed sustainability into our business. We Hold our supply chain accountable. Our
conduct business in a way that is suppliers are essential partners in
environmentally responsible and complies with improving HP’s carbon, energy, water, and
environmental laws, regulations, and waste footprint. We comply with the terms
standards. We are constantly reinventing how of environmental permits and
our products are designed, manufactured, and authorizations, and we are proactive in
delivered to increase energy and material making sure our suppliers do the same.
efficiency, promote reuse and recycling
practices, and avoid environmentally-
concerning materials. We also support waste
reduction, material recycling, and the safe
disposal of hazardous materials in our
communities.
Do your part. Consider setting a Sustainable Impact goal as part of your annual
goal setting process and explore how you can contribute to HP’s sustainability
efforts through your job role. This could be through product design, efficient use of
resources, sales, participation in HP site or community volunteer activities, and
more.Make a difference
Work in ways that are good for us and the world.
Volunteer responsibly. You are encouraged to Know our policies surrounding donations and
take an active role in making a positive sponsorships. HP supports strategic investments
difference in your community. However, it’s designed to address social needs in our
important that you do not use HP’s resources communities and advance HP business and
for any political or charitable contributions market interests. There are processes and
without prior approval. controls in place to ensure company giving
reflects HP’s core values and business interests,
Contribute responsibly. We encourage you to
while properly classifying these investments. For
make personal contributions to causes and
example, nonprofit organizations often use the
organizations you support, and we want
terms “donation” and “sponsorship”
everyone to feel comfortable with their
interchangeably when approaching HP for
choices. Do not pressure or solicit employees,
financial support. However, there are legal and
business partners, or customers to contribute
financial differences that impact the ways in
to or join your preferred charities, groups, or
which we can engage with nonprofits, and they
political activities.
are guided by distinct policies and processes.
Please consult our policies for more information.Make a difference
Integrity in action
Follow the rules on political participation and
lobbying. If you engage in civic activities or share
political views, do not use HP’s time, and make it
clear that your perspective is your own. Any contact I’ve been asked to host a local town hall
made by HP employees with government personnel event where candidates will answer
intended to influence legislation, policies, or questions about community issues. Is it
government action may be considered lobbying, okay in my introduction to share with the
including submissions in response to government audience where I work and what I do?
requests for comments on public policy matters. All
This might be okay. Reach out to
HP employees must obtain prior approval from HP
Government Affairs & Public Policy in
Government Affairs & Public Policy to lobby or to
advance, and if approved, make sure
authorize anyone else – like a consultant, agent,
your participation in the event complies
trade association, or HP Business Partner – to lobby
with our policies.
on HP’s behalf.Policies
Our Culture Our Company Our Relationships
• Global Open Door Policy • HP Cybersecurity policies, standards, and • Conflicts of Interest Policy
• Global Best Work Environment Policy specifications • Anti-Corruption Policy
• Litigation and Investigations Policy • HP Environmental, Health and Safety Policy • Anti-Corruption FAQs
• HP Security Policy
• Global Procurement Policy
• Global Best Work Environment Policy
• Sustainable Impact and Human Rights
Our Promise • Confidential Information Policy
Policy
• Conflicts of Interest Policy
• Partner Legal and Regulatory Compliance
• HP Human Rights Policy • Global Social Media Governance Policy
Policy
• HP Supplier Code of Conduct • Accounting and Finance Manual
• Partner Code of Conduct
• HP Global Master Privacy Policy • HP Global Master Records and Information
• Supplier Code of Conduct
• HP Binding Corporate Rules Management Policy
• Contingent Worker Code of Conduct
• HP Global Employee Privacy Policy & • Litigation and Investigations Policy
• HP Insider Trading Policy • Global Business Amenities Policy
Notice
• HP Instant Messaging Policy • Global Business Amenities FAQs
• HP Personal Data Retention Policy
• U.S. Business Amenities Policy
• Global Best Work Environment Policy
• Conflicts of Interest Policy
• Global Open Door Policy
Our Impact
• Confidential Information Policy
• End User Verification Policy
• HP Environmental, Health and Safety Policy
• HP Global Trade webpage
• HP General Specification for the
Environment
• Global Volunteerism Policy
• Conflicts of Interest Policy
• HP Global Charitable Contributions Policy
• Political Participation Policy
• HP Sponsorship PolicyResources
Our Company
Our Culture Our Promise
• HP Cybersecurity home page
• HP Culture webpage • Sustainable Impact @HP
• Report information security incidents
• Raise a concern infographic • Report concerns
• IT knowledgebase
• Anti-retaliation infographic
• HP Privacy Statement
• Protect Sensitive Company Data
• “Take the First Step” video
• HP Job Applicant Privacy Notice
• Speak Up Listen Up – Module 1: Our • Preventing/Reporting Phishing and
• HP Privacy Rulebook
Open Door Policy Ransomware Attacks
• Privacy principles video
• Speak Up Listen Up – Module 2: • Working from Home – Cybersecurity
• Report privacy incidents
Communicating With Your Employees guidance
• Integrity Investigations FAQs • “Don’t Stand By” video
• Matrix For Handling and Managing the
• How to Report a Concern webpage
Company’s Information Assets
• CDA Portal
• Conflicts of interest infographic
• Side agreements infographic
• Corporate AMEX card usage infographicResources
Waivers and updates to Integrity at HP
Integrity at HP is HP’s code of conduct.
Our Relationships
Our Impact
HP understands and respects your rights as an
• Conflicts of interest infographic employee. Keep in mind that nothing in Integrity
• HP Sustainable Impact webpage
• Anti-Corruption Red Flags at HP is intended to interfere with any legal right
• HP Sustainable Impact Sales and
• HP Amenities Approval Tool you may have to speak publicly about matters of
Marketing Resources
• Employee Reimbursement Hub public or workplace concern, or to engage in
• Corporate Sales and Marketing Resource collective activities that are protected under
local laborlaw This includes protected activity
Center
concerning wages, hours, and other terms and
conditions of your employment.
Integrity at HP will be disclosed to shareholders
and made available on the HP website. HP is
committed to keep Integrity at HP up to date and
may periodically make updates as needed. The
provisions of Integrity at HP are in addition to,
and do not modify, replace, or supersede HP’s
other policies or procedures.
Only our Chief Legal Officer may grant
exceptions or waivers to this document for
employees and non-executive officers. The
© 2023 HP Development Company, L.P. All rights reserved. Board of Directors must approve any waivers
for director or executive officers and must
properly disclose such waivers to the public.