Business Conduct
Guidelines
Integrity Comes FirstTable
of Contents
1. Integrity Means We Commit to 3. Integrity Means We Respect
Ethics and Compliance Intellectual Property Rights
1.1. Our Values and the Business Conduct Guidelines 3.1. Protecting IBM Intellectual Property
1.2. The Importance of Integrity and Compliance 3.2. U sing Third-Party Software, Apps, Cloud-Based
Services and Data
1.3. Speaking Up – Where and How to Report
3.3. Using Open Source Software
1.4. Cooperation
3.4. Developing Applications for Mobile Devices
1.5. No Retaliation
3.5. Protecting Trademarks and Domain Names
1.6. External Inquiries, Contacts and Communications
1.7. Speaking Publicly and Social Media
4. Integrity Means We Are Honest,
Accurate and Complete
2. Integrity Means We Protect IBM
Employees, IBM Assets and the
4.1. Be Honest
Assets Belonging to Others
4.2. Reporting and Recording Information
4.3. Understanding Financial Controls and Reporting
2.1. Maintaining a Safe and Productive Work Environment
4.4. Making Commitments and Obtaining Approvals
2.2. Protecting and Using IBM Assets and Those Owned by
Others 4.5. Retaining Records
2.3. S haring and Receiving Proprietary and Confidential
Information
2.4. Avoiding Inadvertent Disclosure
2.5. Guarding Against Cyberthreats
2.6. Protecting Assets, Business Interests and Employees
2.7. Managing Personal Information
2.8. Leaving IBM
22 IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess5. Integrity Means We Compete, 7. Integrity Means We Separate Our
Win Business and Treat Others Ethically Personal Interests from Our Business
Responsibilities
5.1. Working with Organizations Outside of IBM
5.2. Working with Government Entities and GOEs 7.1. Acting on Your Own Time
5.3. Working with Suppliers 7.2. Avoiding Conflicts of Interest
5.4. Working with IBM Business Partners, Resellers and Others 7.3. Steering Clear of Insider Trading
5.5. Dealing with Competitors 7.4. Participating in Public Service and Political Activity
5.6. Competing Ethically
5.7. Acquiring and Using Information About Others
8. Notice of Certain Additional Rights;
Resources
6. Integrity Means We Meet Our Legal
Obligations 8.1. Other IBM Policies, Directives and Guidelines
6.1. Protecting Against Corruption
6.2. Giving and Receiving Business Amenities and Gifts
6.3. A voiding Money Laundering and Funding Terrorist Activities
6.4. Selling in the Public Sector
6.5. Lobbying
6.6. Visiting IBM Property – Government Officials and
Candidates for Public Office
6.7. Complying with International Trade Requirements
6.8. Complying with Antiboycott Requirements
6.9. Meeting Cross-Border Travel Requirements
6.10. Protecting the Environment
IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess 33Letter
from Arvind
If we think of IBM’s values as our ethical compass, then the Business Conduct Guidelines are
our roadmap. They are inspired by IBMers’ core value of “trust and personal responsibility in
all relationships.” They govern our interactions with clients, business partners, suppliers,
developers, investors, teammates and communities. They support us as we strive to operate
with integrity at all times.
As you review the current Business Conduct Guidelines, I ask you to take a moment to reflect
on how they apply today to your individual role at IBM. Think about their relevance to the
products you develop. To the regulatory environments you encounter. And to the daily
interactions you have with others, both inside and outside our company.
Our commitment to the responsible stewardship of IBM’s values is part of what makes us a
unique and enduring company. Our longstanding reputation for ethics and integrity – built over
more than a century – provides a foundation to continue IBM’s essential role in business and
society, today and in the years to come. We are all keepers of this important legacy. Your
thorough understanding and application of our Business Conduct Guidelines is one of the most
critical ways we can uphold this responsibility.
Thank you for your dedication to these principles, and for everything you do to make IBM the
world’s most trusted technology partner.
Arvind Krishna,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
44 IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess1
Integrity Means
We Commit to Ethics
and Compliance
IBM Business Conduct Guidelines 51. Integrity Means We Commit to Ethics and Compliance
1.1 Our Values and
the Business Conduct
Guidelines
IBM has long been recognized as one of the world’s
most ethical companies. For more than one hundred
years, we’ve repeatedly reinvented ourselves to meet
new challenges. What always has remained unchanged
is our unwavering commitment to integrity.
Our IBM Values serve as a solid foundation for the
business choices we make. The Business Conduct
Guidelines (BCGs) provide general guidance for
resolving a variety of legal and ethical issues.
IBM’s Values
Dedication to every client’s Innovation that matters—for our Trust and personal responsibility
success company and for the world in all relationships
66 IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess1. Integrity Means We Commit to Ethics and Compliance
1.2 The Importance of If you violate the BCGs, other Corporate Directives or
the law, IBM may take any action regarding your
Integrity and Compliance
employment, including termination of employment,
subject to applicable law. Failing to comply with laws
could also result in fines, lawsuits, loss of business
privileges and, in some cases, imprisonment.
Integrity and compliance are vital to IBM’s success
–and yours. Our integrity, reputation and brand are in
your hands, and we rely on you to protect them!
No matter where your workplace is – whether you work 1.3 Speaking Up – Where
with IBMers, clients, Business Partners, suppliers or
and How to Report
other parties in person, over the phone, online or by any
other means – follow our Values, the BCGs and other
applicable IBM corporate directives, such as IBM
policies, corporate instructions and guidelines IBM expects IBMers like you to report potential
(Corporate Directives). And comply with all laws and wrongdoing – whether a violation of the BCGs or other
regulations that apply to IBM’s business. unethical or unlawful conduct involving IBM. IBM will
promptly review your report of actual or potential
Always use good judgment in your work. If you have
violations of the BCGs or other unlawful or unethical
questions about interpreting or applying the BCGs,
conduct. IBM will not tolerate threats or acts of
Corporate Directives, or laws and regulations applicable
retaliation against you for making any reports.
to IBM, don’t guess. Ask for help. It’s your responsibility
to consult your manager or IBM Counsel, or use one of To report a concern (or raise an allegation), contact:
the IBM Communication Channels.
› IBM Employee Concerns: for concerns or allegations
relating to potential violations of the IBM Business
Conduct Guidelines, including without limitation
non-inclusive or inappropriate behaviors (such as
Watch out!
bullying, harassment or discrimination) or financial
recording and reporting, business process violations
and inappropriate use of assets, or management
decisions which personally affect you or the broader
IBM population.
› IBM Corporate Security: for threats or acts of
As our business continues to transform, you violence, loss or theft of IBM assets (including trade
may find yourself working in exciting new areas secrets and other intellectual property), or violation of
law on IBM premises.
like healthcare, financial services, education
› IBM Cybersecurity Incident Response Team: for
or mobile application development, some
cybersecurity or data incidents, potential or actual
of which are highly regulated. Any change
system and data breaches and inadvertent
in your work responsibilities may carry new
disclosures.
responsibilities under the BCGs or new legal › IBM Corporate Health & Safety: for work-related
requirements. health and safety issues.
IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess 771. Integrity Means We Commit to Ethics and Compliance
If you are unsure how to raise a concern or allegation,
the following resources and communication channels
are also available: Did you know?
› Talk It Over @ IBM
› AskHR
› A Trust & Compliance Officer You can raise concerns or report potential
› Corporate Assurance and Advisory Services wrongdoing through the IBM Employee
› Your Manager
Concerns page. Concerns may be raised
› The Legal Department
online, by regular mail or by phone, are
handled discreetly, and may be raised
anonymously. Also, an employee is
not prohibited from reporting possible
Take note!
violations of law or regulation to a
government agency, as permitted by law.
IBM’s Global Insider Trust Program is Did you know?
designed to safeguard IBM’s people and
assets (both physical and digital) from actions
that can negatively impact the company or
Allegations that may fall under the EU
fellow IBMers, and facilitates reporting about Whistleblowing Directive can be raised
unusual activity that could be a potential
through Employee Concerns as well as
insider risk indicator.
other IBM Communication Channels.
88 IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess1. Integrity Means We Commit to Ethics and Compliance
1.4 Cooperation 1.6 External Inquiries,
Contacts and
Communications
IBM needs your cooperation to conduct investigations
and audits for IBM’s internal controls and to respond to
IBM’s business is monitored by journalists, consultants,
inquiries, audits or investigations by clients, regulators
IT and securities analysts, investors, regulators and
or others. You must fully cooperate in these matters. For
others. These people may see you as having valuable
example, promptly, completely and truthfully comply
expertise, and they may ask you to give your insights to
with all IBM requests; participate in meetings and
them, with or without compensation. If contacted, do
interviews in a timely manner when requested; and
not respond to them for IBM, whether in person, online
provide and keep all relevant information (electronic or
through social media, by telephone or otherwise.
otherwise) as directed by IBM.
Instead, promptly notify the contacts below to identify
both the appropriate person to respond and the
appropriate response:
1.5 No Retaliation
› IBM Communications, if contacted by journalists or
bloggers
› IBM Analyst Relations, if contacted by consultants or
IBM prohibits threats or acts of retaliation for (1) IT analysts
reporting in good faith potential wrongdoing or › IBM Investor Relations, if contacted by securities
inappropriate behavior, (2) refusing to act in violation of analysts or investors
the Business Conduct Guidelines, Corporate Directives or › IBM Corporate Environmental Affairs, if contacted by
law, or (3) cooperating with an investigation. If you believe environmental groups, government agencies, business
you have been retaliated against or received threats of associations, or individuals about any matter involving
retaliation, report it through one of the IBM environmental policy, declarations, principles,
Communication Channels, and IBM will take appropriate practices, or programs
action. › IBM Government and Regulatory Affairs, if contacted
about public policy or lobbying matters
› IBM Counsel, if you receive a request for information,
a legal notice or an audit request related to IBM’s
business from a client, attorney, investigator, law
enforcement or other government official or if you are
asked to testify on behalf of IBM in a legal proceeding
or before an agency, legislative or other public hearing
Nothing in the BCGs prohibits you from communicating
directly with any government agency or entity, without
prior consent of, or notification to, IBM to the extent
permitted by law and applicable rules of professional
responsibility.
IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess 991. Integrity Means We Commit to Ethics and Compliance
1.7 Speaking Publicly
Take note!
and Social Media
When you speak out in a public forum or on social
media, you must make it clear that you do so as an
individual. Do not give the appearance of speaking or
If you, as an IBMer, wish to, or are asked to
acting on IBM’s behalf – only certain people are
speak at an event:
authorized to do so. Anything said or written in public
– from the town square to social media sites – will › t hat will be covered by the media, contact
remain accessible longer than you intended, and may Communications beforehand
be read at any time by anyone – whether a client, › where investors or analysts will be the target
competitor, colleague, journalist, investor or regulator. audience or are likely to attend (for example,
When using social media, follow IBM’s Social trade shows or client-sponsored events),
Computing Guidelines. Follow the IBM-Owned Social contact Investor Relations to determine
Media Guidelines authorization process and obtain
whether IBM’s participation is appropriate and,
your manager’s approval before submitting a request
if so, who should participate on IBM’s behalf
for a social handle using IBM’s name, trademarks or
product names. Even if you are simply attending an event (not as
speaker), be aware that you are not authorized
to speak on IBM’s behalf to the media or
analysts/investors in attendance. Forward any
inquiries you receive to IBM Media Relations or
IBM Investor Relations, respectively.
1100 IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess1. Our Commitment to Integrity and Compliance
2
Integrity Means
We Protect IBM Employees, IBM Assets
and Assets Belonging to Others
IBM Business Conduct Guidelines 112. Integrity Means We Protect IBM Employees, IBM Assets, and Assets Belonging to Others
2.1 Maintaining a Safe IBM does not tolerate acts of violence in the workplace.
Workplace violence may include incidents in the
and Productive Work
environment where we work and live. Refer to IBM’s
Workplace Violence Program for additional training and
Environment
support.
Other prohibited conduct, because of its adverse
impact on the work environment, includes the following:
IBM strives to maintain for its employees a healthy, safe
and productive work environment free from discrimination › Threats or violent behavior
and harassment, whether based on race, color, religion, › Possession of weapons of any type
gender, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, › A manager having a romantic relationship with a
pregnancy, national origin, caste, genetics, disability, age or subordinate
any other factors that are unrelated to IBM’s legitimate › Discrimination against any employee on the basis of
business interests. IBM will not tolerate sexual advances or any element of diversity
comments, racial or religious slurs or jokes, or any other › Use, distribution, sale or possession of illegal drugs or
conduct, such as bullying, that creates or encourages an any other controlled substance, except for approved
offensive or intimidating work environment. Familiarize medical purposes
yourself with Corporate Policy 117 “Workforce Diversity › Being under the influence of illegal drugs, controlled
and Inclusion”, which demonstrates our commitment to substances used for non-medical purposes, or
fostering a work environment where every IBMer is able to alcoholic beverages in the workplace
thrive because of their differences, not in spite of them. Be › Consumption of alcoholic beverages on IBM
mindful of Corporate Instruction HR 116, addressing premises, unless approved in advance by your
harassment and bullying in the workplace, and be manager
respectful and considerate of others when communicating
If you believe you are the victim of or are concerned
your viewpoint or otherwise using social computing tools,
about a risk of prohibited workplace conduct, contact
such as Slack channels.
the Talk it Over @ IBM team or report it using one of the
IBM Communication Channels.
If IBM management finds that your conduct on or off
the job adversely affects others or your ability to
Take note!
perform your job, IBM may take any action regarding
your employment, including termination of employment,
subject to applicable law.
When using Slack, exercise good judgment and follow
the BCGs, the Social Computing Guidelines, and
IBM is committed to the use of inclusive
guidelines for Slack usage found here.
language. Your words matter. Avoid racial and
cultural bias by following the Inclusive IT
Terminology Guidelines.
1122 IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess2. Integrity Means We Protect IBM Employees, IBM Assets and Assets Belonging to Others
You must use IBM assets, including IBM premises and
facilities and physical assets and systems, only for
Remember
IBM’s legitimate business purposes. IBM’s physical
assets and systems include devices such as laptops,
tablets and smartphones, information and
communication systems, and connections to the
Internet. Incidental personal use of physical assets and
systems is permitted, however, if it is limited in
You play a critical role in identifying,
duration, does not violate company policies, and does
eliminating and controlling health and safety
not affect your productivity or the productivity of others.
risks. Take reasonable care for your health and
Do not use IBM assets in ways that violate the law, that
safety and that of others.
are inconsistent with IBM’s business interests or to visit
• Maintain accurate emergency contact
Internet sites that feature sexual content or gambling,
information, including your mobile phone or that advocate intolerance of others.
number, in the IBMer Safe tool, so that
Use assets belonging to others, including clients, only to
IBM may contact you in the event of an
the extent permitted by the other party; make sure you
emergency. fully understand and follow the other party’s terms and
• Report unsafe conditions, accidents and near agreements as well as any laws that may restrict access
misses through your local process at Health to the assets based on privacy, citizenship or other
requirements.
& Safety @ IBM.
2.2 Protecting and Using
Did you know?
IBM Assets and Those
Owned by Others
IBM is committed to high standards of corporate
responsibility across all functions of our business
IBM has extensive assets of great value. They are and that includes respecting and protecting
critical to IBM’s success in the marketplace, and we rely
human rights. As a global company, IBM
on you to protect them.
recognizes its role in promoting an equitable
IBM’s assets include, for example, physical assets and and safe future for its employees, suppliers,
systems that IBM makes available to IBMers for work,
clients, and the communities where we operate.
IBM facilities and premises, IBM’s proprietary and
IBM’s commitment to respecting all human
confidential information and IBM intellectual property.
rights is represented by the “IBM human rights
Our business may also require us to access and use
principles” which can be found on the Reports
assets belonging to others, such as their proprietary
and confidential information, intellectual property, and Policies page of the IBM Impact site.
systems, data or tools.
IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess 11332. Integrity Means We Protect IBM Employees, IBM Assets, and Assets Belonging to Others
2.3 Sharing and Receiving Improper disclosure of IBM proprietary or confidential
information could threaten IBM’s competitive advantage or
Proprietary and Confidential
create security issues. Follow all IBM safeguards for protecting
that information and share it only as authorized by IBM.
Information
2.4 Avoiding Inadvertent
IBM’s proprietary information and intellectual property
are IBM assets. They are the result of the hard work and
Disclosure
innovation of many IBMers, and they give IBM a
competitive advantage.
Some IBM proprietary information is confidential; often,
Be careful to avoid inadvertent disclosure of proprietary
such information is also subject to copyright, patent,
and confidential information, whether owned by IBM or
trademark, trade secret or other intellectual property
others. Do not discuss this information with, or in
or legal rights. You may not share IBM confidential
earshot of, any unauthorized person, including family
information with, or accept confidential information
members or friends. They might – innocently or
from, another party unless your manager has approved
otherwise – pass the information on to someone else.
and IBM and the other party have signed a
confidentiality or other suitable agreement approved by
IBM Counsel.
Take note!
Remember
Audio and visual recordings could result in
inappropriate disclosure of proprietary or
confidential information, violate applicable law
IBM proprietary information is any information and/or infringe the privacy of others. You may not,
that IBM owns, including: unless expressly authorized by law, make audio or
• Information about current and future products, visual recordings of IBM confidential or proprietary
services, research and development, or information, business discussions or any other
associated internal policies and processes type in the working environment, unless you have
• Business plans or projections, such as a legitimate business need to make the recording
potential acquisitions or divestitures, or and it is previously approved by management,
unannounced strategies or prospects unless you can use the Webex recording
• Earnings and other financial data functionality according to the Webex recording
• Software in object or source code form rules here. Never record any conversations (live,
• Information in our online repositories and telephone, Webex or otherwise) secretly or without
databases notice to all participants.
1144 IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess2. Integrity Means We Protect IBM Employees, IBM Assets and Assets Belonging to Others
2.6 Protecting Assets,
What should I do if I receive
Business Interests and
unsolicited proprietary or
Employees
confidential information?
We rely on you to protect IBM’s and others’ assets.
IBM does not consider your use of IBM assets to be
private. Therefore, you should not keep any personal
Proceed with caution to prevent any
items, messages or information that you consider
accusation that IBM misappropriated or
private anywhere in IBM assets.
misused the information. If you have a
To protect IBM employees, IBM assets and IBM
question about what to do if you receive an
business interests and subject to applicable laws, IBM
unsolicited email that includes proprietary
reserves the right at any time to:
information, contact IBM Counsel and be
› Inspect your use of IBM assets and personally owned
sure not to forward the email.
electronic devices (BYO devices), such as
smartphones and portable storage media used to
conduct IBM business or store IBM assets, your
office or workspace and your personal property, such
2.5 Guarding Against
as briefcases and bags, located on or being removed
Cyberthreats from an IBM location
Third parties, like our clients, trust IBM with their data
and other assets, and we rely on you to protect them
–as well as IBM’s own data and assets.
Violating IBM’s information security policies puts IBM
assets, and assets belonging to others, like client data,
at risk. Even well-intentioned actions, such as creating
workarounds and shortcuts to improve service delivery
or downloading unapproved third-party software, can
violate IBM and client security policies and result in IT
or data security breaches.
If you are aware of or suspect an IT or data security
issue or incident, or any loss of assets, including data,
belonging to IBM or others, report it immediately by
calling the IBM Help Desk and selecting the
“Cybersecurity Incident” option.
IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess 11552. Integrity Means We Protect IBM Employees, IBM Assets, and Assets Belonging to Others
› Inspect, monitor, intercept and recover through
technical or other means and review any employee
Take note!
communications (including any and all telephone
conversations or transmissions, e-mails, texts, Slack
messages and other instant messages on
collaboration platforms or internet access or usage),
records, files and other items in any electronic device
or system, including but not limited to, computers, To protect IBM assets, including data and
telephones and other systems, whether IBM assets or
proprietary and confidential information, and
BYO devices, at any and all times and by any lawful
assets belonging to others, take the following
means for any purpose
precautions:
› Terminate your use of, or access to, IBM assets at any
time, including access through BYO devices › Follow IBM’s information security policies,
controls and processes.
You are expected to cooperate with such inspections
› Never share passwords.
and IBM actions. IBM may share information and data
› Register all devices used for IBM business
with others, including its outside counsel, other advisors
or law enforcement, subject to applicable law. Do not purposes, such as laptops, mobile phones,
access another employee’s workspace, including e-mail servers and personally owned electronic
and electronic files, without prior approval from your devices, such as smartphones and portable
manager or the employee. storage media, as required by IBM policy.
› Follow the special legal or other requirements
For additional information on access to IBM assets and
that apply to certain types of data, like health
employee personal property, refer to Access to
Property and Information. information.
› Participate in scheduled IBM cybersecurity
training.
› Do not use any personal accounts (email,
instant messaging, social media, cloud
storage, videotelephony, etc.) to conduct IBM
business.
› Maintain accurate and up-to-date employee
and contractor records to help ensure access
credentials are appropriate.
› Remove a supplier’s access to IBM data or
delete the data yourself (or direct the supplier
to delete it), as soon as the supplier’s need to
access the IBM data ends.
1166 IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess2. Integrity Means We Protect IBM Employees, IBM Assets and Assets Belonging to Others
2.7 Managing Personal If you are aware of or suspect that personal information
has been misused, lost, stolen or accessed
Information
inappropriately, report it immediately – call the IBM Help
Desk and select the “Cybersecurity Incident” option.
IBM takes your privacy seriously. Not all countries have
data protection laws, but IBM has Privacy and Data
2.8 Leaving IBM
Protection policies intended to protect personal
information wherever we use, process or store it. Always
comply with applicable privacy laws and IBM privacy
policies. IBM assets and materials belong to IBM and you may
not use them for personal purposes or in any
IBM’s business processes, management and systems
subsequent employment you may have. Assets and
cross country borders. To run its business and manage
materials include software, hardware, data and any
the employment of its personnel, subject to applicable
other information or material (such as employee data,
data protection laws:
financial information, marketing data, code, project files
› IBM and IBM-authorized companies and individuals and product or program designs) you develop or work
collect and use personal information about on during the course of your employment.
employees, such as compensation, skills, use of IBM
If you leave IBM for any reason, including retirement, you
assets, and medical and benefit information.
must return all IBM assets and materials to IBM, including
› IBM may share this information with those who have a
IBM assets and materials that are on BYO devices. Upon
need to know, such as health insurers.
your departure, you may not remove any IBM assets or
› IBM and IBM-authorized companies may transfer
materials from IBM, either physically or through any digital
personal information about you, as an IBM employee, to
means. Do not, for example, transfer IBM assets or
IBM-authorized companies or individuals in any country
materials from IBM Box or any other IBM repositories to a
where we do business.
personal device or personal online storage.
If, as part of your work, you have access to personal
Never disclose or use IBM assets or materials for any
information of others, you may use such personal
purpose that violates the BCGs or otherwise in support
information only to the extent necessary to do your job
of any subsequent employer. IBM continues to own
and according to instructions issued by management
intellectual property that you create as an IBM
and other Corporate Directives that apply. When
employee even after you leave IBM.
compiling personal information, make it anonymous,
when possible, to minimize risk.
› Some personal information, such as health or financial
information, is particularly sensitive and is subject to
more stringent regulatory requirements, with which
you must comply.
› Do not disclose personal information to anyone who
does not have a legitimate need to know such
information, within or outside of IBM, either during or
after your employment.
IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess 11773
Integrity Means
We Respect Intellectual
Property Rights
1188 IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess3. Integrity Means We Respect Intellectual Property Rights
3.1 Protecting IBM
Intellectual Property
IBMers have access to, and may develop, IBM
intellectual property. Intellectual property includes such
things as inventions, software, publications, know-how
and other related materials. We value our intellectual
property; it helps provide protection, credibility and
value to our development and innovation efforts for both
open source project contributions and proprietary
solutions.
As an IBMer, you assumed specific obligations relating
May I participate in external
to intellectual property by virtue of applicable law and
the employee agreement between you and IBM. This standards development
includes assigning to IBM rights in intellectual property
organizations?
relating to IBM’s current or anticipated business
activities you develop while an IBM employee, unless
otherwise approved by management in accordance with
our On Your Own Time – Guidelines for Developing
IP. Talk with IBM Counsel before you file for a patent or
other intellectual property rights.
Engaging in external standards activities like
the World Wide Web Consortium or the
International Organization for Standardization
– either on new projects with organizations
IBM is already involved in or with new
organizations altogether – could result in
antitrust risk or loss of intellectual property
rights. Follow the Standards Activity
Review (SAR) Process before participating in
standards activities.
IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess 11993. Integrity Means We Respect Intellectual Property Rights
3.2 Using Third-Party
What is the right way to acquire a
Software, Apps, Cloud-
third-party product to use for IBM
based Services and Data business purposes?
To protect our employees and our business, IBM
restricts IBMers’ use of third-party software products
(including apps), open source software, cloud-based
You can:
services, generative AI tools, and data (together,
third-party products). • Purchase it through Procurement, using
established Procurement procedures; or
Some third-party products (including those available for
“free” or at no charge such as open source software,
• Obtain it from an approved IBM source
external online language translation apps or tools) may
on w3 or through an external app store, as
not meet IBM security requirements or may contain
directed by IBM.
malware that could threaten IBM’s network. They may
have licenses and terms IBM cannot comply with, which
can expose IBM to audits, license fees and other
intellectual property claims by others. has approved their use and IBM has been granted a license
to use them in the ways you intend. If you’re using open
Whether you are using an IBM-provided device (laptop,
source software, follow IBM’s Open Source Participation
tablet or smartphone) or a BYO device, make sure you use
Guidelines as well. Some third-party products may be
third-party products for IBM business purposes only if IBM
approved for certain uses, but not for others. Make sure
you understand any applicable restrictions.
Watch out!
3.3 Using Open Source
Software
The default settings on some third-party
IBM has a strong history of contributing to and consuming
products are set at “public” – which means
open source projects. There are many benefits to IBM
that anything you do or post can be visible to
and our clients gained from engaging in open source, but
others on the internet. This could result in the
it must be done responsibly according to IBM guidelines
loss of proprietary or confidential information to maximize value and manage both cybersecurity and
belonging to IBM or others. Make sure you intellectual property risks. All IBMers who are consuming
follow IBM security guidelines and use the or contributing to open source software, such as software
developers, offering managers, program managers,
proper security and privacy settings.
researchers and others, must follow IBM’s Open Source
Participation Guidelines.
2200 IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess3. Integrity Means We Respect Intellectual Property Rights
3.4 Developing Applications 3.5 Protecting Trademarks
for Mobile Devices and Domain Names
Follow the IBM Mobile Development Guidelines if you Trademarks are words, names, symbols or designs used
create IBM applications for mobile devices. The rules for to identify and distinguish a company and its products or
distributing applications on certain devices are strict. services, and they are valuable assets. Use IBM’s and
Make sure you know what is allowed. Obtain prior other companies’ trademarks properly and acknowledge
approval from your manager before using development the trademarks of others, when appropriate. For
kits or other tools that have not been approved. guidance, refer to IBM’s Copyright and Trademark
Information.
Do not develop or use a word, name, symbol or design
as a trademark without first going through the Naming
Did you know?
Tool Process. In addition, you may not, directly or
through another party, register domain names on IBM’s
behalf or create websites for IBM that will be available
Content, images or other files may be easy on the Internet (outside of IBM.com) without approval
to download from the Internet and may from the Corporate Webmaster.
be free, but beware – they are likely still
subject to license restrictions. Make sure you
fully understand and follow the terms and
conditions associated with any downloaded
content, images or other files.
IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess 22114
Integrity Means
We Are Honest, Accurate and
Complete
22 IBM Business Conduct Guidelines4. Integrity Means We Are Honest, Accurate and Complete
4.1 Be Honest Record and report only accurate, complete and honest
information. Never report information in a way that is
intended to mislead or misinform those who receive it.
The rules are simple: never make misleading or If you are unsure about the accuracy or completeness
dishonest statements to anyone, and never engage in of any information, don’t guess. Ask for help.
activities that could be considered unethical, fraudulent
If you believe any information you’ve recorded or
or otherwise unlawful.
reported to IBM or others is incorrect or has been
misunderstood or if you’re reviewing information
submitted by others that appears to be incorrect,
promptly notify your manager and IBM Counsel to
4.2 Reporting and
determine the appropriate next steps.
Recording Information
Watch out!
As IBMers, we regularly provide to IBM and others
information and data, such as requests for
reimbursement of business expenses, hours worked on
client projects, or certifications.
We rely on IBMers like you to record and report
accurate, complete and honest information.
Some examples of dishonest or fraudulent
Under various laws, IBM is required to maintain
reporting include:
accurate books and records. Misrepresentation can
lead to civil and criminal penalties for both you and
IBM, and the loss of business privileges, such as the
› Submitting false or inaccurate expense
right to bid on business, export or import products or
reimbursement requests
even remain in business.
› Inaccurately recording the number of hours
worked or failing to report time (or overtime
in accordance with IBM guidelines) worked,
Remember whether or not charged to a client
› Submitting inaccurate information to IBM’s
tools or processes
› Providing inaccurate or incomplete
information to IBM or other parties, including
during investigations, audits or other reviews
Both making false statements and omitting
› Making false or misleading statements in (or
important facts are wrong.
omitting material information from) external
reports or other documents submitted to
government agencies
IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess 22334. Integrity Means We Are Honest, Accurate and Complete
Did you know? Watch out!
Always be accurate and honest when labor
claiming – whether reporting hours to be billed
to a client or to measure against internal goals.
Do not make verbal arrangements or
Never over or under report. Report accurately.
commitments, or enter into unapproved
If you don’t understand the proper way to claim
written commitments or side deals.
your time, ask your manager or visit AskHR.
Violating accounting and financial reporting laws can
result in significant fines, penalties and imprisonment.
4.3 Understanding Financial
The rules for accounting and financial reporting require
the proper recording of, and accounting for, revenues,
Controls and Reporting
costs, expenses, assets, liabilities and cash flows. If you
have responsibility or involvement in these areas, you
must understand and follow these rules. These rules
As a public company, IBM must follow strict accounting also prohibit you from assisting others to record or
principles and standards, report financial information report any information inaccurately or make false or
accurately and completely, and have appropriate misleading financial reports. Never provide advice to
internal controls and processes to ensure that our others, including clients, suppliers or IBM business
accounting and financial reporting complies with law. partners, about how they should record or report their
own revenues, costs, expenses, assets and liabilities.
If you are aware of or suspect any improper or unethical
Take note! accounting or financial reporting, immediately inform
IBM Accounting, Corporate Assurance and Advisory
Services or IBM Counsel, or report it through one of
IBM’s other Communication Channels.
IBM must recognize revenue accurately. Be sure
4.4 Making Commitments
to discuss with IBM Accounting, your manager
and Obtaining Approvals
or CFO team all factors that could impact
revenue recognition, such as deviations from
standard IBM payment terms, non-standard
warranties, contingencies in deals or deviations IBM has established approval processes and delegation
from customary ordering procedures. levels to help us protect our assets, maintain
appropriate controls and run our business effectively.
2244 IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess4. Integrity Means We Are Honest, Accurate and Complete
Understand and follow the approval processes and
delegation levels that apply to your role. Do not make Take note!
business commitments, including modifications to
pricing, contract or service terms, without appropriate
approvals or contrary to delegation limits. All
commitments must be reported to IBM Accounting to
ensure the accuracy of IBM’s books and records.
IBM’s internal processes and controls are
implemented to help ensure we do business
the right way. Make sure you understand which
4.5 Retaining Records
IBM processes and controls apply to what you
do. If you’re unsure, ask! If you think a process
or control is unclear or could be improved, talk
Our records are valuable assets. Always follow the IBM
about it with your manager, the process owner,
Worldwide Records Management Plan and document
or Trust & Compliance.
retention orders issued by IBM Counsel for retaining and
disposing of IBM records. The Plan applies to Don’t bypass a process or control without an
information in any media, including hard copy and authorized exception, and if you see others
electronic records, e-mail, wikis, blogs, apps and
bypassing, say something. If a client or other
records in collaboration tools (whether on the IBM
third party asks you to bypass IBM’s (or their
network or one operated by others).
own) controls, or assist them in doing so, notify
your manager.
IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess 22555
Integrity Means
We Compete, Win Business and
Treat Others Ethically
26 IBM Business Conduct Guidelines5. Integrity Means We Compete, Win Business and Treat Others Ethically
5.1 Working with Government entities are government agencies,
departments, branches, instrumentalities and public
Organizations Outside of IBM
enterprises, whether regional, national, or local, as well as:
› Government-owned or -controlled schools, hospitals,
utilities and other organizations that provide public
Whether you are selling, buying or representing IBM in services;
any other capacity, you must be ethical and lawful in › Public international organizations, such as the United
your business dealings. Your actions can directly affect Nations or World Health Organization; and
IBM’s competitiveness, reputation and compliance with › Entities that procure under public procurement laws
applicable laws. and regulations.
IBM regularly works with other organizations – State-owned enterprises can be any other type of
subcontractors, suppliers, consultants, agents, IBM entity, even those that are privately held or publicly
Business Partners and competitors – and frequently has traded, that are owned, controlled, organized, or
multiple relationships with these companies. You must sponsored by a GOE or a government official. A
understand these relationships and act in accordance government official is an officer or employee of a GOE
with our guidelines. as well as any private individuals or entities acting in an
official capacity on behalf of one.
Working with other parties can present risks – IBM can be
held liable for the misconduct of others, such as agents, Dealing with GOEs, their representatives and
consultants or IBM Business Partners. For example, if we government officials or their family members raises
know or have reason to believe a Business Partner will unique business and compliance issues, and you must
offer or accept a bribe or kickback, IBM may be held follow IBM’s established processes and controls to
accountable, even if IBM does not authorize or condone
it. We require other parties with whom we interact to
comply with many IBM guidelines and meet our high
Did you know?
standards of integrity in their work for us. If you are aware
of or suspect another party is acting unethically or
illegally, immediately report your concern to IBM Counsel
or through one of IBM’s Communication Channels. Ownership alone does not determine the
status of an entity. Ask yourself:
› Are the employees of the entity public
5.2 Working with officers or civil servants?
› Does a government entity or GOE “control”
Government Entities and
the entity, for example, through the ability to
other GOEs appoint directors or senior management or
through regulations?
› Are its activities financed by a government
entity?
IBM engages with government-owned or -controlled
If the answer to any of these questions is yes, it
entities (which we refer to as GOEs) in many ways – for
is likely that the entity is a GOE.
example, as IBM clients, suppliers, consultants or IBM
Business Partners. GOEs include both government
entities and state-owned enterprises.
IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess 22775. Integrity Means We Compete, Win Business and Treat Others Ethically
address them. Before you engage in any business 5.4 Working with IBM
activity, including marketing or sales activities, it is your
Business Partners,
responsibility to determine if the party you are dealing
with is a GOE or a government official (or a family
Resellers and Others
member of one). If you are uncertain, don’t guess.
To help market and install IBM solutions, IBM has
5.3 Working with Suppliers
relationships with many other parties, such as IBM
Business Partners, Independent Software Vendors,
resellers and systems integrators.
IBM works with many suppliers worldwide, purchasing
If you work with these parties, you must follow the
both for its internal use and in support of client
sales, marketing and services guidelines that apply,
engagements. In general, all purchases from suppliers
including the Guidelines for Working with IBM
must be negotiated, signed, and managed by IBM
Business Partners. You must also understand and
Global Procurement, unless a delegation is in place.
abide by any specific requirements for IBM Business
In deciding among competing suppliers, whether you Partners and other similar parties when dealing with
are a procurement professional or a business person government entities and other GOEs.
involved in a purchasing decision, we weigh the facts
impartially to determine the best supplier, regardless of
whether it is a large or small purchase.
5.5 Dealing with Competitors
You must not exert or attempt to exert influence to
obtain special treatment for a particular supplier. Even
appearing to do so can undermine the integrity of our
Competition laws, also known as monopoly, antitrust,
established procedures. Similarly, avoid conflicts of
fair trade or cartel laws, are intended to prevent
interest in a procurement transaction by following the
interference with the functioning of a competitive
principles in Section 7.2.
market system and exist in almost all countries where
As a general principle, IBM does not buy or sell on a we do business.
reciprocity basis. To maintain the high standards of our
products, we should base our purchasing decisions on
quality, price and supplier reliability. Also, reciprocity
may be unlawful in some situations. Watch out!
Of course, IBM clients can also be suppliers to IBM, and
it can be appropriate for IBM to consider its other
relationships with a supplier in some cases. For
example, when IBM divests part of its business, IBM
often buys products in the divested business area from
Exchanging competitive information with
the acquiring company. Direct questions about
reciprocity to IBM Procurement. employees of a competitor can be a crime in
certain circumstances.
2288 IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess5. Integrity Means We Compete, Win Business and Treat Others Ethically
Prohibited conduct may include: colluding with others
to fix prices or divide territories, illegally monopolizing
an industry or unlawfully abusing a dominant position.
Contacts with competitors require extra care. Avoid
discussion of or collaboration on proprietary or
confidential information, including pricing policies,
contract terms, costs, inventories, marketing and
product plans, market surveys and studies, production
plans and capabilities, and allocating clients or
territories. Such discussions may be illegal.
If a competitor raises a prohibited subject, stop the
conversation immediately and inform the competitor
that you will not discuss these matters. If the
competitor continues to discuss the prohibited subject,
leave the meeting and immediately report the incident
to IBM Counsel.
Collaborating with competitors creates risk. It is your
responsibility to understand the rules that apply to such
Are any communications with
activities and to avoid prohibited subjects. Obtain prior
competitors acceptable?
approval of your manager and seek advice from IBM
Counsel before collaborating with competitors,
including competing IBM Business Partners.
5.6 Competing Ethically
Yes. IBM and its competitors may attend
conferences or trade association meetings
where subjects of general interest are
IBM sells its products and services on their merits. You
discussed without violating the law. Other
should compete vigorously for business, but always
ethically and in compliance with our policies and the acceptable contacts include sales to and
law, no matter how competitive the environment. purchases from other companies in our
industry and approved participation in
Never make false or misleading statements about IBM
joint bids. IBMers may also participate in
and its products and services or other companies,
Open Source communities and Standards
including competitors and their products and services.
Development Organizations with competitors,
Always be accurate, complete and honest. Be sure all
comparisons to competitors are substantiated. In provided proper care is taken with IBM
certain countries, comparative advertising is prohibited proprietary information.
or limited.
IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess 22995. Integrity Means We Compete, Win Business and Treat Others Ethically
pay a competitor’s employees to obtain such
Watch out! information. Do not accept or use information if you
have reason to believe it may have been obtained
improperly or illegally.
Treat information about other organizations and
individuals with sensitivity and discretion. Use it in the
proper context and consistently with the purpose for
which you were provided access. Share it only with
If you receive a competitor’s confidential
those who have a legitimate need to know. Whenever
information (such as a pricing proposal), by
possible, aggregate or anonymize information to avoid
mistake or intentionally, from a client or other
disclosing the identity of organizations or individuals.
party, do not review it, distribute it or otherwise
use it. Instead, immediately call IBM Counsel
or Trust & Compliance for guidance on how to
proceed. Take note!
5.7 Acquiring and Using
Information About Others
IBM manages valuable data of our clients.
Trust, transparency, privacy, and ethics as
outlined in the IBM Principles for Trust &
In today’s highly competitive environment, it is critical
Transparency must guide both our handling
that IBMers know and understand our competitors’
offerings. Follow Corporate Instruction IPL 130 of client data and insights and our responsible
–Accessing non-IBM offerings (products or development and deployment of new
services) when acquiring information about our technologies, including artificial intelligence
competitors’ offerings. IBM may also acquire
products and services. Adhere to the Tech
information about individuals or organizations, including
Ethics by Design Corporate Directive in the
competitors, that we do business or engage with. IBM
design, procurement, development, delivery
properly gathers this kind of information from legitimate
and operational lifecycle of applicable IBM
sources for legitimate purposes, including extending
credit, evaluating suppliers and evaluating our own products, services, and internal activities.
products, services and methods.
Do not engage in or facilitate any improper or illegal
practices, such as wiretapping, surveillance, hacking,
bribery, theft, trespassing, misuse of social platforms or
pretexting, to gather intelligence or obtain trade secrets
or confidential or sensitive information. Do not hire or
3300 IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess6
Integrity Means
We Meet Our Legal Obligations
IBM Business Conduct Guidelines 316. Integrity Means We Meet Our Legal Obligations
6.1 Protecting Against
Watch out!
Corruption
IBM prohibits bribery and kickbacks of any kind. Never
offer or give anyone, or accept from anyone, anything of
value that is, or could be viewed as, a bribe, kickback or
When working with IBM Business Partners,
other improper benefit, and never improperly attempt to
suppliers or others, watch for warning signs of
influence that person’s or entity’s relationship with IBM,
corruption and bribery, such as:
whether to obtain or retain business or get some other
benefit. And do not make such payments or offer such › Discrepancies in records or unexplained
benefits through others, such as agents, contractors, payments
consultants, IBM Business Partners, trade associations
› Deep discounts, high margin or abnormally
or suppliers.
high prices
Likewise, we expect everyone we interact with – › Lack of skills or resources to do the job
including suppliers, IBM Business Partners, agents, › Parties with no legitimate purpose in the
contractors and consultants – not to accept or offer deal
bribes or kickbacks. › Extravagant expenses
› Suspicious personal relationships or
business arrangements
What is “anything of value”?
Anti-corruption laws around the world make bribery a
crime. Some laws, like the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act and Brazil’s Clean Company Act, focus on
bribery of government officials or employees of
government entities or other GOEs. Others, like the UK
Anything of value means just that: Anything, Bribery Act, also prohibit bribery of employees of
including money, meals, gifts, entertainment, commercial entities.
transportation, travel, accommodations,
event entrance fees, charitable contributions
and even employment or internships (paid
and unpaid).
3322 IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess6. Integrity Means We Meet Our Legal Obligations
6.2 Giving and Receiving over a certain value to government officials, employees
of government entities, other GOEs or, in some
Business Amenities and
countries, employees of commercial entities.
Gifts Many jurisdictions restrict giving amenities or gifts,
directly or through others, to a government official or an
employee or representative of a government entity,
other GOE or, in some cases, commercial party. Make
In our day-to-day business activities, we may offer and
sure you understand the anti-bribery laws, ethics rules
receive customary business amenities (like meals and
and gift and other laws that apply where you work
entertainment) and, in limited circumstances, gifts, to
before offering anything of value to anyone. If you have
promote IBM products and services, build goodwill and
any questions, don’t guess. Ask your manager,
strengthen working relationships. You must follow IBM
Government and Regulatory Affairs, IBM Counsel or
processes and obtain required pre-approvals before
Trust & Compliance – they can help.
giving or receiving business amenities and gifts. Review
Corporate Instruction Fin/Leg 168 Business Employment and Internships: Never promise or
Amenities and Gifts for additional guidance. provide employment or internships for the purpose of
obtaining a business advantage or other preferential
Giving treatment for IBM. Hiring must be done in accordance
with applicable IBM Human Resources policies and
Get your manager’s approval before giving business
processes.
amenities or gifts to others. Finance and Legal approval
must be obtained through the Compliance with Charitable Contributions: Follow IBM Corporate Social
Transportation, Entertainment, and Business Responsibility policies and processes before giving a
Amenities (CTEBA) process before giving amenities charitable contribution, grant or donation on behalf of
IBM. This includes sponsoring events hosted by
non-profits, purchasing tables at events and making
Did you know? other contributions of any kind. Never make, or ask
someone else to make on IBM’s behalf, a charitable
contribution to obtain a business advantage or
preferential treatment for IBM.
In the health care space, there are often
restrictions on the giving of financial benefits Receiving
or anything of value to providers of health
Neither you nor any member of your family may, directly
care services, including doctors, nurses or through others, solicit or accept from anyone money,
and hospitals. This is to prevent improper gifts, referral fees, meals, entertainment,
influences on purchasing decisions. “Anything transportation, travel or any other business amenities
that could influence, or reasonably give the appearance
of value” could include sales contract
of influencing, IBM’s business decisions. If you or your
concessions and payments for consultant
family members receive any gift or business amenity
services. Consult with IBM Counsel in
(including money), even if unsolicited, notify your
advance to confirm the appropriateness of any
manager and take appropriate measures, which may
arrangements. include returning or disposing of what you received.
IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess 33336. Integrity Means We Meet Our Legal Obligations
6.3 Avoiding Money 6.4 Selling in the Public
Laundering and Funding Sector
Terrorist Activities
Public sector procurement laws are designed to ensure
that products and services sold to, or for the benefit of, a
We must comply with applicable laws prohibiting money
government entity or other GOE are procured at fair and
laundering and terrorism financing. IBM has
reasonable prices. The regulations and procedures
implemented policies and processes to help prevent
around public sector procurement are complex and vary
and detect inappropriate or suspicious activities.
widely. It is your responsibility to identify and comply
Employees who are responsible for making or receiving
with applicable regulations and procedures.
payments on behalf of IBM must guard against the use
› Sole source: IBM accepts sole source contracts only
of our funds, products and services for purposes of
if the client has made an exception to competitive
money laundering, terrorism financing or other criminal
procurement rules and IBM has not improperly
activity.
influenced that exception. Review all potential sole
Report any suspicious transactions or payments, or raise
source procurements with IBM Counsel or Contracts
questions to your manager, IBM Counsel, your local IBM
& Negotiations before proceeding, and comply with
Anti-Money Laundering Officer, if applicable, or through
any applicable sole source guidelines in your country.
IBM’s other Communication Channels.
› Access to information: Do not, directly or indirectly,
obtain oral or written information (including advance
copies of solicitation or tender documents and
Watch out! government planning and budgetary documents) that
has not been made available to the general public or to
all bidders, or that is subject to restrictions regarding its
use. Do not seek or obtain non-publicly available
information regarding competitors’ bids or the decision-
making process of the government entity or other GOE.
Be alert for suspicious transactions, such as: It is your responsibility to make sure you have only
appropriate information. If you are uncertain about any
› Payments made in currencies other than the
information, consult with IBM Counsel.
currency specified in the contract
› Pre-bid activities: Be careful when communicating
› Over-payments and requests for refunds
with government agencies on procurement matters
› Unusual fund transfers to or from parties or
–contact the agency only through the person(s)
countries not involved in the deal
designated by the government for a solicitation. Do not
prepare a solicitation document on behalf of a public
sector client, even at the client’s request; submit any
anonymous documents, such as white papers, to a
public sector client; or encourage a public sector client
to sign an agreement before an award is made to IBM.
Doing so may prevent us from subsequently bidding.
3344 IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess6. Integrity Means We Meet Our Legal Obligations
› Hiring and business opportunities: Do not discuss
business or employment opportunities that could
personally benefit any public sector employees
involved in procurement planning or decisions (or their
family members) before or during the course of a bid.
Ethical and legal restrictions may apply – before and
after IBM wins the bid and on an ongoing basis during
and after government employment.
› Fulfilling contract requirements: Do not ship, provide or
invoice products and services to a government entity or
other GOE until IBM receives a valid order (e.g.,
purchase order) containing terms and conditions
acceptable to IBM.
If you have any questions, need help or are aware of or
› Using agents and consultants; teaming with
suspect any violation of these guidelines or of a public
competitors: Prior approval of IBM Global
sector procurement law, consult your manager, IBM
Procurement and IBM Counsel is required before using
Counsel, Contracts & Negotiations or Trust &
any agents or consultants on public sector procurement
Compliance.
deals. Teaming with competitors on public sector deals
presents several risks – consult with IBM Counsel.
› Contingent fees: A contingent fee is a fee paid by one
6.5 Lobbying
party to another party for securing business for the
first party. Some jurisdictions prohibit paying or
receiving contingent fees for sales to a government
entity or other GOE. Get approval from IBM Counsel
Any contact with government personnel intended to
and Finance before agreeing to contingent fees or
influence legislation, policies or government action
other incentives.
may be considered lobbying, including submissions in
response to government requests for comments on
public policy matters. Under some laws, lobbying even
includes normal marketing, procurement and sales
Watch out!
activities directed to government customers. You are
responsible for knowing and complying with all relevant
lobbying and associated gift laws and reporting
requirements. You must obtain prior approval from
Government and Regulatory Affairs to lobby or to
authorize anyone else – like a consultant, agent, trade
Current and former government employees association or IBM Business Partner – to lobby on
may need government clearance before IBM’s behalf.
discussing employment with IBM.
Requirements differ by jurisdiction – check
with IBM Counsel.
IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess 33556. Integrity Means We Meet Our Legal Obligations
6.6 Visiting IBM Property – 6.7 Complying with
Government Officials International Trade
and Candidates for Public Requirements
Office
Export Controls and Sanctions
Because IBM is a U.S. company, its hardware and
software products, services, source code, technical
Political campaigning is not allowed on IBM property.
data and technology are subject to both U.S. and local
Get approval from Government and Regulatory Affairs
export controls and economic sanctions laws,
before inviting current or former public officials and
regardless of your work assignment or location. Export
candidates for public office to an IBM site or
controls and economic sanctions laws affect many IBM
IBM-sponsored event.
transactions, including intra-company transactions;
technology transfers; transactions with other parties,
including clients, suppliers, and original equipment
Will IBM reimburse travel manufacturers; and use of IBM Business Partners or
expenses or pay honoraria for others to complete a delivery or provide a service.
Before IBM products, services or technology can be
public officials in connection with
exported, re-exported or delivered anywhere, IBM
an IBM speaking engagement?
must validate that it has the authorization to provide
those items under U.S. and applicable non-U.S. export
and sanctions laws. All IBM business must comply with
the U.S. Export Regulations Program, available here.
If permitted by applicable law and with prior
Defense Articles and Services
approval of IBM Government & Regulatory
If IBM’s business with government agencies or
Affairs, IBM may reimburse the actual and
contractors involves the provision (including brokering)
reasonable travel expenses incurred by a
of products, technical data or services relating to
public official in connection with an approved
military applications or defense articles, Corporate
IBM speaking engagement, but IBM generally
Instruction LER 104 IBM Business Operations under
does not pay honoraria.
the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) may
apply to your activities. U.S. Government authorization
is required prior to any transfer or disclosure of U.S.
defense articles or services outside the U.S. or to
non-U.S. persons. Other countries apply similar
restrictions on transfers and disclosures of their
defense articles and services.
3366 IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess6. Integrity Means We Meet Our Legal Obligations
Imports
IBM must also comply with all import laws, regulations Remember
and requirements when engaging in international trade,
including IBM’s obligations under supply chain security
and other trusted partnership programs. In addition to
the cross-border movement of physical items, import
implications may result from other activities, such as:
› Change in manufacturing location, processes or Export laws and regulations cover, for
source of supply example:
› Client activity requiring cross-border delivery › Physical shipments, electronic transfers and
› Shipment of marketing samples or prototypes remote access to software or technology
cross-border
› Design, development and delivery of
› Calculation of product intra-company prices for sales
hardware, software and solutions
to an IBM location in another country
› Travel outside the U.S. with IBM products,
› Determination of product country of origin
technology or assets (such as a tablet or
› Maintenance of accurate data and records for product
laptop)
inventory, sales and shipment
› Providing technical specifications and
performance requirements to suppliers
› The transfer of personal knowledge or
6.8 Complying with
technical assistance outside the U.S. or
country of residency
Antiboycott Requirements
› Disclosures of IBM technology to recipients
who are not citizens or permanent residents
of the country in which they are located
IBM, its subsidiaries and affiliates, and their agents are
prohibited from complying with or supporting a foreign
country’s boycott of a country that is friendly to the
United States. IBM is required to report promptly to the
U.S. Government any request to support a boycott or to
furnish information regarding a boycott.
Take note!
IBM’s Import Compliance Office and
Export Regulation Office can answer
questions about IBM’s import and export
control requirements.
IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess 33776. Integrity Means We Meet Our Legal Obligations
authorizations and documentation, such as a work
permit or a work visa, are usually required prior to
Remember
traveling if you are going to perform productive work in
another country. Always comply with IBM requirements
for cross-border travel and provide accurate information
to the IBM Immigration team. The consequences for
failing to do so can be serious for both you and IBM.
Contact the Export Regulation Office about any
boycott-related requests, including requests
6.10 Protecting the
to: refuse business involving a particular
country, its citizens or companies active in that Environment
country, issue negative origin certificates, or
provide information about business activities in
a boycotted country.
IBM is committed to worldwide leadership in
environmental protection. If your job involves processes
that affect the environment, such as measuring,
recording or reporting discharges and emissions to the
6.9 Meeting Cross-Border
environment or handling hazardous waste, always
Travel Requirements comply with applicable environmental regulations and
permits, as well as IBM’s environmental policies. If you
are aware of or suspect a violation of environmental law
or any action intended to cause or conceal a violation,
Cross-border travel for IBM business can raise
immediately report the matter to IBM Counsel. Visit
immigration, payroll, corporate and tax requirements
IBM’s Corporate Environmental Affairs and Product
and obligations under IBM internal policies or the laws
Safety website for more information on IBM’s
of the destination country. For example, valid work
Environmental Policy and Programs.
3388 IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess1. Our Commitment to Integrity and Compliance
7
Integrity Means
We Separate Our Personal Interests
From Our Business Responsibilities
IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess 33997. Integrity Means We Separate Our Personal Interests From Our Business Responsibilities
7.1 Acting on Your Own Time consultant or a member of its board of directors or an
advisory board or council – unless you obtain the prior
approval of senior management and IBM Counsel.
Your private life is very much your own. Nonetheless, as You may not accept money or other benefits of any kind
an IBMer, your activities, both on and off the job, can for any advice or services you may provide to a supplier
affect IBM’s business interests. in connection with its business with IBM. You may,
however, accept promotional discounts generally
offered to the public by transportation companies,
hotels, auto rental agencies and restaurants.
Did you know?
Assisting a competitor
Providing assistance to a competitor is an obvious
conflict of interest, and you may not work for a
Membership on the board of directors, advisory
competitor of IBM in any capacity – as an employee, a
board, advisory council or similar position at
representative, a consultant or a member of its board of
another company could result in a conflict with
directors or an advisory board or council.
IBM’s interests. You must get the prior review
and approval of senior management and IBM Engaging in Other Outside Activities
Counsel. Outside the office, you may wish to engage in activities that
generally relate to technology, business advice or other
products or services IBM offers its clients. However, any
outside activities, including working for another company
7.2 Avoiding Conflicts of
or starting your own business, could result in a conflict of
interest if, for example, the outside activity competes with
Interest
IBM’s business interests or advances the interests of
A conflict of interest occurs when you advance a
Remember
personal interest at the expense of IBM’s interests.
Remember: a personal interest can be a direct benefit
to you or a benefit to a family member or close friend. It
is up to you to avoid any activity that creates, or appears
to create, a conflict between your personal interests and
the interests of IBM. Disclose to your manager any
actual or potential conflict of interest, and discuss You may only use your IBM provided assets
possible ways to mitigate or eliminate the conflict. Your for incidental personal use. Also, any approved
primary responsibility is to IBM, and any conflict must outside activities you undertake may not
be resolved in IBM’s favor.
interfere with your IBM work and you may not
use IBM proprietary or confidential information,
Supplying IBM
or information entrusted to IBM by those we do
You may not be a supplier to IBM or work for a supplier to
business with, in connection with such activities.
IBM in any capacity – as an employee, a representative, a
4400 IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess7. Integrity Means We Separate Our Personal Interests From Our Business Responsibilities
another company at IBM’s expense. Because IBM is
rapidly expanding into new lines of business and areas of
Take note!
interest, the lines of acceptable activity are continually
being redrawn. It is your responsibility to obtain approval
from your manager before engaging in outside activities
that may conflict or compete with any of IBM’s actual or
potential businesses.
Ask yourself the following to help you determine
Remember: you may only use your IBM provided assets
if a financial interest is improper:
for incidental personal use. Also, any approved outside
activities you undertake may not interfere with your IBM › What is the extent and nature of the
work and you may not use IBM proprietary or confidential relationship between IBM and the other
information, or information entrusted to IBM by those we company?
do business with, in connection with such activities. › What is the size of my investment in relation
to my salary and other family income and
Personal financial interests investments?
You may not have financial interests in any organizations
› Am I being offered these investments only
or companies (whether public or private, large or closely
because I work at IBM?
held) with which IBM does business, such as suppliers,
› Could my actions as an IBM employee affect,
clients, competitors or IBM Business Partners, if that
or appear to affect, the value of my
interest could create or give the appearance of a conflict
investment in the other company?
of interest with IBM. You must consult with your manager
› Do I have any involvement, direct or indirect,
if you think any of your investments raise conflict of
in deciding whether IBM does business with
interest issues. Do not evade these investment
this company?
restrictions by acting indirectly through anyone else.
Independently Developing Intellectual Property
IBM understands employees may have interests in inadvertent disclosure of IBM or another party’s
developing intellectual property outside of IBM and IBM proprietary or confidential information or assets will help
supports such efforts as provided in our On Your Own minimize risks to IBM’s interests. However, in some
Time (OYOT) Guidelines for IP Ownership and IBM’s instances, a change in your job responsibilities or those of
Open Source Guidelines. It is your responsibility, the other person involved may be necessary.
however, to maintain IBM confidential and proprietary
information and avoid conflicts of interest. Relationships with others working at IBM
If you have a family or romantic relationship with
someone working for IBM and you are in a position to
Family and close relations working in the industry
Close ties to others working in the industry – a spouse, make employment or other decisions about them
domestic partner, family member, close friend, and the like (hiring, promotion, compensation, work allocation, etc.),
– present special security, regulatory and confidentiality inform your manager and remove yourself from any
concerns. Such a personal relationship might result in the decision-making to avoid conflicts of interest and
inadvertent compromise of IBM’s business interests. questions about favoritism and fairness. In some
instances, a change in your job responsibilities or those
Disclose to your manager any such relationship. Frequently,
of the other person involved may be necessary.
periodic reminders and careful attention to avoiding
IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess 44117. Integrity Means We Separate Our Personal Interests From Our Business Responsibilities
The rules are simple: do not improperly use or disclose
inside information; and do not evade these guidelines by
Take note!
acting through anyone else or by giving inside
information to others for their use, even if you will not
financially benefit from it. If you have any questions
about what you can or cannot do, consult IBM Counsel.
If you have a close relationship with a supplier
to IBM or any other entity IBM does business
with, or to someone employed by one, there is a
potential conflict of interest, particularly if your
Watch out!
work involves working with, using or selecting
the entity. Seek advice from your manager
and, if it is a supplier, the IBM Procurement
Ombudsman, to mitigate any conflict of interest.
Do not disclose to anyone outside of IBM,
including your family members, or to your IBM
7.3 Steering Clear of Insider
colleagues who do not have a business need to
Trading know:
› inside information about IBM’s financial
performance, including unannounced
During your employment with IBM, you may become aware earnings and dividend actions, acquisitions
of information about IBM or other companies that has not or divestitures, and other significant activities
been made public. Using or disclosing this inside information affecting IBM; or
for your financial or other personal benefit is unethical and
› inside information about IBM or any other
against the law. Inside information is material information
company.
that is not available to the general public that could influence
Do not buy or sell IBM securities or securities
a reasonable investor to buy, sell or hold a company’s
securities. Information can be material even if it would have of a client, IBM Business Partner or other
only a small impact on the price of the securities. party based on inside information you have
about IBM or that company. For example, if
Violation of these laws may result in civil and criminal
penalties, including fines and jail sentences. IBM will not you know that IBM is considering a significant
tolerate the improper use of inside information. These relationship with an IBM Business Partner, do
prohibitions apply anywhere in the world where we do not buy or sell the securities of that company
business.
until after the information becomes public.
4422 IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess7. Integrity Means We Separate Our Personal Interests From Our Business Responsibilities
7.4 Participating in Public Political Office
IBM will not pay you for time spent running for public
Service and Political Activity
office, serving as an elected official or campaigning for a
political candidate, unless required by law. Consult with
Government and Regulatory Affairs before accepting a
political appointment or running for government office
As a good corporate citizen, IBM encourages employees
at any level.
to participate in their communities. Speak with your
manager to determine the proper approach if you think
your personal activities could create a conflict of
interest.
Public Service
Your participation in public service may create a conflict
of interest for IBM. As a board or committee member of
a civic organization, for example, you may be confronted
with a decision involving IBM, such as a decision to
purchase IBM products or services, and your interest in
IBM and your obligation to the civic organization might
pull you in opposite directions. Make it clear that you are
an IBM employee to avoid any perception that you
concealed your association with IBM and consider
abstaining from participating in any decision-making on Take note!
matters involving IBM. Seek advice from the civic
organization’s lawyer or from IBM Counsel, as needed.
Political Contributions and Endorsements
IBM will not endorse, support or make contributions or
Some jurisdictions have “pay-to-play” laws
payments to any political parties or candidates, including
through political action committees, campaign funds, that impact public sector contractors, like
trade or industry associations or similar organizations. For IBM. If you are in a senior position within IBM
example, IBM will not purchase tickets, pay fees or or if you have responsibility for negotiating or
reimburse expenses for any event where any portion of
overseeing government contracts, you and
the funds will be used for election campaigns.
your family members may be restricted from
Do not make any political contribution as a giving personal political donations in some
representative of IBM, and do not use work time or IBM
jurisdictions. Understand and comply with all
assets in support of political parties or candidates
restrictions that apply to you and contact IBM
–using work time or assets would be the equivalent of a
Government & Regulatory Affairs and IBM
contribution. IBM will not reimburse you for any
Counsel with any questions.
personal contributions you make.
IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess 44338
Notice Of Certain
Additional Rights;
Information and
Resources
› In the United States, trade secrets are protected › Be advised that when using IBM assets or BYO
under both federal and state law. It will not be a devices, any and all telephone conversations or
violation of the BCGs, and you will not be held liable transmissions, electronic mail or transmissions, or
under any U.S. federal or state trade secret law, if you internet access or usage by an employee by any
disclose a trade secret in confidence to the electronic device or system, including but not limited
government or an attorney solely for the purpose of to the use of a computer, telephone, wire, radio or
reporting or investigating a suspected violation of law, electromagnetic, photoelectronic or photo-optical
or if you disclose a trade secret under seal in a systems, may be subject to monitoring at any and all
complaint or other filing or in response to a court times and by any lawful means.
order in a lawsuit or other proceeding.
› When IBM’s client is in the public sector, IBM is that
client’s “contractor.” U.S. law provides for certain
rights, remedies and protections for contractor
employees who, in connection with U.S. government
contracts or funds, report internally or to certain
government officials or entities information the
employee reasonably believes is evidence of gross
mismanagement or waste, abuse of authority,
violation of law, or a substantial and specific danger to
public health and safety.
44 IBM Business Conduct Guidelines8. Notice Of Certain Additional Rights; Resources
8.1 Other IBM Policies,
Directives and Guidelines
› Access to Property and Information – page 16 › Information Security Policies – page 16
› AskHR – page 8 › IT Security Standard
› Compliance with Transportation, Entertainment, and Business › Mobile Development Guidelines – page 21
Amenities (CTEBA) – page 33
› Naming Tool Process – page 21
› Copyright and Trademark Information – page 21
› On Your Own Time – Guidelines for Developing IP – page 19
› Corporate Directives, Policies and Instructions – page 7
› Open Source Guidelines – page 20
› Corporate Environmental Affairs and Product Safety – page 38
› Principles for Trust & Transparency – page 30
› Corporate Instruction Finance/LEG 168 Business amenities and
gifts – page 33 › Privacy & Data Protection: Policies and Legislation – page 17
› Corporate Instruction HR 116 preventing harassment and › Social Media Guidelines – page 10
bullying in the workplace
› Social Computing Guidelines – page 10
› Corporate Instruction IPL 130 – Accessing non-IBM offerings
(products or services) – page 30 › Standards Activity Review (SAR) Process – page 19
› Corporate Instruction on Enterprise Data Standards › Talk it Over @ IBM – page 8
› Cyberthreats – page 15 › Tech Ethics by Design Corporate Directive – page 30
› Employee Concerns – page 7 › Third Party Board Service
› Export Regulation – page 36 › Third Party Generative AI Tools – page 20
› Global Assignment and Immigration – page 38 › Workplace Violence Program – page 12
› Global Insider Trust Program – page 8 › Worldwide Records Management – page 25
› Global Procurement – page 28
› Guidelines for Working with Business Partners – page 28
› Other IBM Policies:
› IBMer Safe – page 13
– Business conduct – Quality
› Import Policies and Guides – page 37 and ethics – Politics
– Reciprocity – Human rights principles
› Import Compliance Office – page 37
– Workforce diversity – Global employment
– Health and safety standards
– Data privacy – Cognitive principles
– Diverse business – Statements on
relationships individual issues
– Environmental affairs
IIBBMM BBuussiinneessss CCoonndduucctt GGuuiiddeelliinneess 4455© International Business Machines Corporation 2018, 2024
International Business Machines Corporation
New Orchard Road
Armonk, NY 10504
IBM, the IBM logo and IBM.com are trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation,
registered in many jurisdictions worldwide.
A current list of IBM trademarks is available on the Web at www.IBM.com/legal/copytrade.shtml.