CODE OF CONDUCT
Issued: May 2016
Revised: May 2019, June 2021, August 2021Dear Team,
For the past several years, Lenovo has been steadily growing, becoming
one of the world’s largest and most respected makers of PCs, smartphones,
tablets and servers, and providers of cloud services. We have more customers
in more places buying more devices than ever before. With our bigger
business and higher profile comes not only great opportunity, but also great
responsibility.
That is why we must have a clear, strong, consistent Code of Conduct.
This Code reflects an extension of our culture of integrity and our continued
commitment to ethical business practices and complying with the law. We
expect all of our employees and representatives to understand and comply
with our Code and exercise good judgment when making business decisions.
The Code summarizes the principles and policies that govern our company.
This Code must apply to every business decision in every area of the
company worldwide. Please use this Code and the resources described in it
to help answer your questions or address your concerns.
As we continue to transform, our Code and values remain steadfast. We
must keep our momentum and continue winning by doing business ethically,
honestly, with integrity, and in full compliance with all laws and regulations.
We all have the responsibility to raise compliance and ethical concerns.
Lenovo prohibits retaliation against any employee who, in good faith, seeks
guidance or reports a concern.
Lenovo will keep rising, keep winning, and together we will achieve our
greatest aspirations. Great companies operate with great integrity. That is my
expectation - and that is how we will keep growing, winning and achieving our
bold aspirations for many years to come.
Sincerely,
Yang Yuanqing
Chairman & CEO
Lenovo
INTRODUCTION | 2CONTENTS
OUR INVESTORS 17
Letter from Yang Yuanqing, Chairman and CEO 2
Conflicts of Interest 17
OUR CULTURE AND 5
Outside Employment 19
GUIDING PRINCIPLES
Board Memberships 19
Our Values Define the Way We Do Business 6 Family Members & Close Personal Relationships 20
How We Act With Integrity 7 Personal Investments 21
Connected Transactions Process 22
INTRODUCTION 8
Accuracy of Business Records 23
Additional Manager Responsibilities 9 Insider Information & Securities Trading 24
Ethics and Compliance Program 10 Authority to Make Lenovo Commitments 25
Reporting Concerns and Seeking Guidance 10 Protecting Company Assets 26
The LenovoLine 11 Lenovo Information & Communication Systems 27
Investigating and Resolving Issues 13 Privacy & Data Protection 28
No Retaliation 13 Lenovo Intellectual Property Rights 29
Lenovo Confidential & Restricted Information 30
OUR EMPLOYEES 14
Fair Treatment 14
Diversity 14
Harassment-Free Workplace 15
Health, Safety & Security of Employees 16
Alcohol & Substance Abuse 16
INTRODUCTION | 3CONTENTS
THE MARKETPLACE 32 COMMUNITY & SOCIETY 44
Gifts, Entertainment, Corporate Hospitality & Travel 32 The Environment 44
Giving & Receiving Gifts 33 Political Process 45
Entertainment & Travel 34 Anti-Money Laundering 46
Providing Gifts, Entertainment or Travel to Commitment to Human Rights 46
Government Officials or Employees 35
Commitment to Community 47
Anti-Corruption Laws & Bribery 36
Government Customers 37 WHERE TO GO FOR HELP 48
Product & Quality Service 38
Representations Regarding Lenovo Products 38 NO RETALIATION 48
Treating Our Business Partners With Integrity 39
External Communications/Media Relations 40
Protecting Information & Intellectual Property
Belonging to Others 41
Fair Competition 42
Import & Export Controls 43
INTRODUCTION | 4OUR CULTURE AND
GUIDING PRINCIPLES
INTRODUCTION | 5Serving Our Customers
服务客户
Innovation
开拓创新
We do what we say.
We own what we do. Entrepreneurship
We wow our customers. 创业精神
说到做到，尽心尽力，成就客户。
Teamwork with Integrity & Trust
诚信共赢HOW WE ACT WITH INTEGRITY
FOLLOW THE LAW, THE
COURAGE
CODE AND OUR POLICIES
We report any situation or action that we believe
We behave honestly, by obeying the law, our
violates our policies, the Code of Conduct or
policies, our Code of Conduct and by always
the law. We never retaliate against those who
doing the right thing. We do not engage in unfair
speak up.
business practices or illegal activities like fraud,
theft, bribery, insider trading or harassment. We
ETHICAL LEADERSHIP
never abandon our ethical values for the sake of
profits or personal gain.
Regardless of our position or level, we rely on
Lenovo’s values and Code of Conduct as our
MUTUAL RESPECT
guide. We consider the consequences of our
decisions on Lenovo’s reputation. We avoid
We treat each other with fairness, dignity and
conflicts between our personal interests and
respect. We value individual differences and the
those of Lenovo.
quality of ideas and innovation that come from
those differences.
COMMITMENT TO CONSUMERS
AND COMMUNITIES
ACCOUNTABILITY
We always focus on the needs of consumers,
We honor commitments, deliver on our promises
our customers and the communities where we
and take responsibility for decisions. We never
do business.
use a contractor, consultant or other third party to
perform any illegal act or violate Lenovo policy.
OUR CULTURE AND GUIDING PRINCIPLES | 7INTRODUCTION At Lenovo, the Code of Conduct (the Code) We must never conceal anyone’s failure to
is the cornerstone of our commitment comply with the Code, Lenovo policies or
to conducting business legally, ethically the law. We should never ask or allow a
and with integrity. The Code applies to all third party to act on Lenovo’s behalf in any
employees (including full-time, part-time, way that would violate the Code, Lenovo
and supplemental or temporary) of Lenovo policies or the law.
Group Limited and its subsidiaries, present
and future. We also require all consultants The Code is a starting point, and is not
and contractors working for Lenovo to intended to describe every law, policy,
follow the Code in connection with their procedure or business process that applies
work for Lenovo. to your work at Lenovo. Make sure you
know the rules that apply to you.
Any violation of this Code is a serious
matter. A breach can put the company, our In addition to following the Code, each of
employees and our products or services us has an important responsibility to know
at substantial risk. Every employee is and follow the laws that apply, wherever we
accountable for his or her own behavior. work. If you have questions about the laws
that apply to your activities, contact the
Failure to follow the Code, or violation of the Legal Department.
policies described in the Code, can result
in disciplinary action, including termination
of employment. Failure of any contractor or
consultant to follow the Code can result in
termination of their relationship with Lenovo.
IINNTTRROODDUUCCTTIIOONN || 88ADDITIONAL MANAGER RESPONSIBILITIES
As a manager at Lenovo, you lead by example, creating a work
culture that promotes integrity and reinforces the Code and our
supporting policies.
• You will ensure your employees know what is
expected of them, are comfortable seeking
guidance when they have questions and can raise
concerns without fear of retaliation.
• You may never engage in - or allow - retaliation
against someone for making a report of
suspected misconduct.
• You will ensure that your employees and contractors
complete all required ethics training.
• As a manager, you have a special obligation to
report and respond to any behavior that you think
could violate the law, the Code or our policies.
• If you feel unsure of the answer to an employee’s
question or concern, contact the resources listed in
the Code.
INTRODUCTION | 9ETHICS AND Lenovo’s Ethics and Compliance Office (ECO) administers
Lenovo’s ethics and compliance program. The ECO monitors and
COMPLIANCE PROGRAM
enforces employee compliance with the Code and Lenovo policies.
The ECO also answers employee questions, provides training and
policy guidance and serves as a channel for reporting unethical,
suspicious or illegal behavior.
You should promptly report any conduct that:
REPORTING CONCERNS
AND SEEKING GUIDANCE
• Seems unethical, illegal or suspicious
• May violate the Code
• May violate any policies or procedures
You can raise concerns at any time with:
• Your manager (provided your manager is not involved in the
violation) or another manager you trust
• The Ethics and Compliance Office (ECO) (ethics@lenovo.com)
• Human Resources
The LenovoLine
•
The Legal Department
•
In China, you can report misconduct to Lenovo’s Independent
•
Commission Against Corruption (ICAC) (ICAC@lenovo.com)
INTRODUCTION | 10THE LENOVOLINE
The LenovoLine allows you to report a concern or ask a question Contact the LenovoLine
24 hours a day 7 days a week, either online or by telephone. The by phone:
LenovoLine is operated by an independent, outside company.
Information received through the LenovoLine is referred to Lenovo’s To call from the US, dial
ECO. Every report is assessed and taken seriously. The LenovoLine 1-800-230-2464
is committed to protecting your confidentiality, to the extent possible.
To call from China, dial
You can raise issues anonymously if you prefer. Although your name is
400-120-0213
not required to address most concerns, a more thorough investigation
can be conducted if you identify yourself.
For dialing instructions from other countries, visit the “Legal”
section of Lenovo Central.
Due to legal restrictions, anonymous reporting through the LenovoLine
is not permitted in certain countries. Some countries also limit the
http://lenovocentral.lenovo.com/compliance/lenovoline.shtml
types of issues that can be reported using this resource. If the
LenovoLine is not available in your country, please contact one of the
Contact the LenovoLine
other available Lenovo resources. If you have any questions about
on the website:
which resources to use, contact the ECO.
To make a report or inquiry using the secure
LenovoLine website, visit
https://www.integrity-helpline.com/lenovo.jsp.
INTRODUCTION | 11ATTENTION:
» Q. Why is it important to
report misconduct? Any of the following statements could be a sign of
trouble. If you hear anyone say these things, speak up!
A: We all have a responsibility to do the right
thing and protect Lenovo’s reputation. If you • I know it’s against policy, but this is just how things get done here--it’s
promptly report any suspected violation of the local custom
Code, policy or the law, you will help prevent or • It’s ok if they [our business partners]--and not us--violate the Code and
limit damage to Lenovo. the law
• It’s not my problem; someone else should say something
• No one will find out
» Q. What if my culture
• It seems suspicious, but I don’t have any proof
discourages speaking up?
• Reporting won’t change anything; it would just distract from getting the
job done
A: It is not always easy to find the courage • We couldn’t function or win business if we followed all of the rules; they
to speak up and report a concern, but as an just slow things down
employee or individual working with Lenovo, you • Meeting our launch date is more important than following the rules
are expected and encouraged to do so; it is an • The more confidential details I share with others about our new products,
essential part of our Code. While cultural norms the more excitement we can generate
may vary, our Code and the importance of doing
the right thing never varies. Reach out to your manager, the LenovoLine, the ECO, Human Resources or
the Legal Department for the right course of action. If you are unsure who to
contact, contact the ECO.
IINNTTRROODDUUCCTTIIOONN || 1122INVESTIGATING AND When necessary, Lenovo will investigate issues raised
RESOLVING ISSUES by employees or others. All employees, contractors and » Q. What are some examples of
consultants are required to cooperate fully with investigations retaliation?
and audits conducted by Lenovo or governmental
authorities. This means providing information, Lenovo-
A: Retaliation can take many forms including:
issued equipment such as computers or smartphones,
• Demotions
documents and personal interviews. Failure to cooperate,
• Undesirable assignments
including misleading, lying, destroying or altering documents
• Inappropriate performance ratings
or records, or failing to respond promptly to requests
• Termination of employment
for information by investigators or auditors is grounds
• Verbal harassment
for disciplinary action up to and including termination
• Intimidation
of employment. Lenovo may report misconduct to the
• Threats
appropriate authorities. Consult the ECO or the Legal
Department before responding to non-routine requests for
audits, investigations or information from parties outside » Q. I raised a compliance concern
of Lenovo. about my manager to my local
HR Partner. My manager has now
started raising issues with my
Lenovo does not tolerate retaliation against any employee,
NO RETALIATION performance that he never raised
consultant or contractor for reporting an issue or raising a
before. What should I do?
concern he or she believes to be true, cooperating with an
investigation or audit, or refusing to participate in activities
A: Let HR or the ECO know about your
that violate the Code, laws or company policies. This
concerns, even if you aren’t sure. Your concern
policy protects anyone who makes a report in good faith,
will be investigated and if you are being retaliated
even if he or she is found to be mistaken. Anyone who
against, action will be taken to protect you.
engages in retaliation will be subject to disciplinary action,
including termination of employment. If you believe you were
retaliated against, immediately report the matter to the ECO.
INTRODUCTION | 13FAIR TREATMENT
We believe in treating each other with respect and dignity. We judge all
applicants and employees by their qualifications, demonstrated skills and
OUR EMPLOYEES achievements without regard to race, color, religion, gender, gender identity
or expression, national origin, ethnicity, sexual orientation, sex, age, disability,
veteran status, marital status or any other characteristic protected by local
law. When necessary, Lenovo will provide reasonable accommodations for
employees with disabilities or those with special religious requirements.
All employees help to create a positive work environment by adhering to
these standards.
DIVERSITY
We are proud to actively promote diversity in our workforce and the
workforces of those with whom we do business. We respect and
value individuals for their diverse backgrounds, experiences, styles,
approaches and ideas. We rely upon diversity to inspire innovation
that drives our business, enhance our competitive advantage and
serve consumers across the world.
COMMITMENT TO
DIVERSE BUSINESS
RELATIONSHIPS
POLICY
OOUURR EEMMPPLLOOYYEEEESS || 1144HARASSMENT-FREE
WORKPLACE Harassment can be physical, verbal or visual
conduct that creates an intimidating, offensive,
abusive or hostile environment.
Lenovo will not tolerate discrimination or harassment of any individual
with whom we have a business, service or professional relationship. Harassment can take many forms. Some
This includes discrimination or harassment based on race, color, examples of harassing behaviors include:
religion, gender, gender identity or expression, national origin,
ethnicity, sexual orientation, sex, age, disability, veteran status, marital • Unwanted requests for dates
status or any other characteristic protected by local law. We do not • Displaying or sharing offensive or
tolerate unwelcome verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature. pornographic pictures or images
When a co-worker’s conduct makes us uncomfortable, we speak out. • Unwanted touching
If we experience or observe workplace harassment, we should report • Offensive or inappropriate language,
the incident to our manager, any other member of management, comments or jokes
HR or the ECO. Lenovo takes harassment claims seriously and will
investigate them thoroughly. Employees who engage in harassment, Lenovo managers are required by Lenovo
discrimination or inappropriate behavior are subject to disciplinary and in some cases, by local law, to report any
action, including termination of employment. harassment as soon as they become aware of the
situation to Human Resources or to the ECO so
the issue can be appropriately investigated.
COMMITMENT TO
DIVERSITY AND
NON-DISCRIMINATION
POLICY
OUR EMPLOYEES | 15HEALTH, SAFETY &
ALCOHOL &
SECURITY OF EMPLOYEES
SUBSTANCE ABUSE
We are committed to providing a safe and healthy work
Lenovo expects employees to report to work able to perform their
environment and preventing accidents. We must observe the
duties and free from the influence of alcohol, illegal drugs or the
safety and health rules and practices that apply to our job and
abuse of prescribed or over-the-counter drugs. Using, possessing,
protect ourselves and our coworkers, including immediately
buying, or selling illegal drugs or abusing controlled substances
reporting accidents, injuries and unsafe conditions.
while on the job, on Lenovo premises, operating Lenovo property
(including company vehicles) or engaging in Lenovo business
A safe and secure work environment also means a workplace free
is prohibited and is grounds for disciplinary action, including
from violence. With the exception of Lenovo security personnel and
termination of employment. Check the policies that apply to your
law enforcement, Lenovo prohibits the possession, concealment or
location for additional guidance.
use of any firearm or other weapon on Lenovo premises (including
parking lots and other outside spaces) or in any location outside
the home when conducting Lenovo business. Report any violence,
intimidation or threats of violence as soon as possible to Lenovo
Security or the Legal Department.
RESPONSIBILITY FOR
EMPLOYEE HEALTH
AND SAFETY POLICY
WORKPLACE
VIOLENCE
POLICY
OUR EMPLOYEES | 16OUR INVESTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
We should avoid situations that may involve a conflict, or even
an appearance of a conflict, between our personal interests and
Lenovo’s legitimate business interests. Immediately disclose any
situation that may be or could appear to be, a conflict of interest
to your manager and the ECO or Legal Department and remove
yourself from any related decision-
making process.
When faced with a potential conflict of interest, ask yourself:
• Does this benefit (or could it be perceived to benefit)
me, my family or another business, in conflict with
Lenovo’s legitimate business interests?
• Would this activity, if publicized, harm my reputation, my ability
to do my job or embarrass Lenovo?
THE FOLLOWING ARE SOME EXAMPLES
CONFLICTS
OF INTEREST
POLICY
OOUURR IINNVVEESSTTOORRSS || 1177EXAMPLES OF CONFLICTS OF INTEREST:
• Having an employment, contracting or consulting relationship
with a Lenovo competitor, supplier or customer
• Holding a substantial financial interest in a Lenovo competitor,
supplier or customer
• Performing non-Lenovo work or soliciting non-Lenovo business
while working on Lenovo time
• Using Lenovo assets, including equipment, telephones, materials
or proprietary information for unauthorized personal use or
outside work
• Accepting any cash, gifts, entertainment or benefits that have
more than a nominal value from any competitor, supplier or
customer of Lenovo
• Using opportunities discovered through Lenovo employment for
personal gain at the expense of Lenovo
• Hiring, managing or supervising a relative or romantic partner
• Awarding Lenovo business to a relative’s business
OUR INVESTORS | 18OUTSIDE
EMPLOYMENT
Any outside business activity must be strictly separate from
» Q. I took a second job working as
employment at Lenovo, not compete with Lenovo’s interests, and
an independent contractor for should not harm your job performance at Lenovo. We must follow
local Lenovo policies on taking outside employment or participating in
a company that sells various
outside business ventures. We may not work for or receive payment
products. Before taking the job, I
for services from any third party who interacts with Lenovo, including
received approval from my Lenovo Lenovo’s suppliers, customers, competitors or regulators without prior
manager. I recently learned that the written approval from management. We may not use Lenovo assets
for any outside business activity without prior written approval from
company will start manufacturing
management.
components which may be sold to
Lenovo or to its competitors. Do I
need to disclose this to my Lenovo BOARD
manager as well?
MEMBERSHIPS
A: Yes. Even though you did the right thing initially
by obtaining approval for the outside employment,
the circumstances have changed and now Serving on a board of directors or similar body for an outside
present a potential conflict of interest. You should business, organization (including trade industry associations and
consult your manager or the ECO. standard-setting boards) or government agency, can also create
a conflict of interest and requires advance review by the ECO and
approval from Lenovo’s management at the level of Vice President
or higher. Serving as a director of a publicly traded company or
any company that is a supplier to or customer of Lenovo requires
the approval of the CEO and General Counsel of Lenovo. Lenovo
encourages our employees to be active in their communities and,
where appropriate, assume leadership positions in community or
non-profit organizations, provided this service does not create a
conflict between their duties to Lenovo and their duties to the outside
organization.
OOUURR IINNVVEESSTTOORRSS || 1199FAMILY MEMBERS &
CLOSE PERSONAL
» Q. My brother’s wife runs a company
RELATIONSHIPS
that provides cleaning services.
Can I be involved in hiring her
If our family members, romantic partners or people with whom we company to work for Lenovo?
are in close personal relationships are or may become involved in
business activity related to Lenovo, including acting as a Lenovo
A: No. It creates a conflict of interest between
supplier, customer or vendor, we should immediately disclose the
your desire to help your brother’s wife and your
nature of the relationship to management and HR and must remove
objectivity in selecting the best company. You
ourselves from any related decision-making process. If we supervise
should disclose your relationship and remove
or are in a position to exercise influence over any aspect of the
yourself from the selection process. The cleaning
performance, compensation or advancement of a family member,
company may then compete for Lenovo’s
romantic partner or someone with whom we have a close personal
business with other qualified vendors.
relationship, we must report this relationship to a Human Resources
Vice President at Lenovo.
INAPPROPRIATE
RELATIONSHIPS
POLICY
OUR INVESTORS | 20» Q. I would like to make a small PERSONAL INVESTMENTS
investment in Dell stock.
Any problems? Our personal financial investments must not influence, or appear
to influence, our independent judgment on behalf of Lenovo. When
determining whether a personal investment creates a conflict of
A: No. Small investments in public companies
interest, consider the relationship between the business of the
that compete with Lenovo are fine as long as
outside company, Lenovo’s business and what you do at Lenovo.
you are not basing your decision on confidential
Consider whether the company has a business relationship
information learned through your position at
with Lenovo that you can influence and the extent to which the
Lenovo. If you have questions about whether your
company competes with Lenovo.
investment could cause a conflict, contact the
ECO for guidance.
If there is any doubt about how an investment might be perceived,
disclose it as soon as possible to your manager, the ECO or the
» Q. I’d like to make an investment in my
Legal Department for guidance.
friend’s company that competes
with Lenovo. The investment will We are also prohibited from directly or indirectly buying, or
otherwise acquiring rights to any property or materials, when
give me 25% of the equity in the
we know that Lenovo may be interested in pursuing such
business and the ability to influence
an opportunity.
how the business operates. Any
problems with this?
A: Yes, there is a problem. This business
competes with Lenovo and your investment in it
is likely to cause, or appear to cause, you to act
in ways that support your friend’s company, which
would be harmful to Lenovo’s interests.
OOUURR IINNVVEESSTTOORRSS || 2211CONNECTED
TRANSACTIONS PROCESS
We must comply with Lenovo’s Worldwide Connected
Transactions Process. Before contracting or transacting with
any external entity or individual (including vendors, suppliers or
customers) we must check to determine if the individual or entity
is included on Lenovo’s List of Connected Persons. If an entity or
individual is on the list, you must immediately report the transaction
to Lenovo’s Company Secretary Office before committing or
entering into the contract or agreement.
LENOVO WORLDWIDE
CONNECTED TRANSACTIONS
PROCESS
OUR INVESTORS | 22ACCURACY OF
» Q. You tried hard to close a big sale
BUSINESS RECORDS before the end of the quarter.
Unfortunately, the customer was on
Investors count on Lenovo to provide shareholders with accurate, vacation and did not accept or sign
timely and understandable information about the company’s the contract until after the quarter
financial condition. We rely on every employee to ensure that all
had ended. Your manager wants
books, records and accounts conform both to required accounting
your team to meet its numbers and
principles and to Lenovo’s system of internal controls. We must
never conceal or falsify any Lenovo business records. asked you to date the paperwork
All business records and communications should be clear, truthful
back to last quarter. Should you
and accurate. Our communications must avoid exaggeration,
do this?
guesswork and insulting remarks or characterizations of people
and companies. We should not include judgments about the law or
any potential legal liability in our communications unless we have A: Definitely not. It is improper to record false
been authorized to do so by the Legal Department. sales or false dates. Dates, costs and revenues
must be recorded accurately in the proper time
Business records must be retained and destroyed according to period. If a sale is not yet final, it should not be
Lenovo’s record retention policy unless directed differently by the recorded as final.
Legal Department.
Contact your manager, Internal Audit, the ECO, or the Legal
Department or make a confidential report through the LenovoLine, Did you know?
immediately, if you suspect that:
Business records include financial books,
• Any Lenovo book, record or account has been falsified or records, accounts, receipts, expense reports,
improperly altered or destroyed or texts, emails, notes, time cards and quality,
• Improper or illegal action has been taken related to
safety and personnel records. They may even
accounting or financial reporting
include your posts on social media.
OUR INVESTORS | 23INSIDER INFORMATION
& SECURITIES TRADING
» Q. Does Lenovo’s Insider Trading
Policy apply to buying or selling In the course of our employment with Lenovo, we may learn non-
public information (also called “inside information”) about Lenovo or
stock in other companies?
other companies, including our customers, suppliers or business
partners. In some cases, if this confidential information became
A: Yes. For example, let’s say you learn during
public, it could affect the price of Lenovo’s or another company’s
discussions about a new hardware purchase
stock. The use or sharing of such non-public information about
that a customer plans a major expansion. If you
Lenovo or another company for your or another’s benefit is called
purchase stock in the customer’s company,
“insider trading.”
share this information with a friend or tell the
friend to buy stock in the company, it could be
All Lenovo employees are prohibited from engaging in insider
insider trading.
trading, even if you will not financially benefit from the information
being shared. Engaging in insider trading can hurt Lenovo and
Lenovo’s shareholders and may also subject you to civil and
criminal penalties.
CONTINUOUS
DISCLOSURE POLICY
PRACTICAL GUIDANCE
ON THE OPERATION
OF THE CONTINUOUS
DISCLOSURE POLICY
TRADING IN
SECURITIES POLICY
OOUURR IINNVVEESSTTOORRSS || 2244AUTHORITY TO MAKE
LENOVO COMMITMENTS
Lenovo’s management system, contracting processes and » Q. Can I split purchase orders in order
delegations of authority are designed to provide the appropriate
to avoid delegation of authority
controls needed for Lenovo to run our business effectively, comply
limits or speed up the approval
with laws and protect Lenovo from waste, fraud and abuse.
We must keep to the limits of our authority to act on behalf of process if I’m just trying to help the
Lenovo and must not take any action to exceed or avoid those
Company operate faster?
limits. These delegations of authority set out the rules for which
organizations and line management have authority to approve
A: No. We must accurately record each of our
pricing and certain other contract terms and conditions.
business transactions. No Lenovo entry should be
made to conceal or disguise the true nature of a
You are not allowed to make oral or written business commitments
transaction regardless of your reasoning.
outside of these processes, such as side deals. In addition, all
commitments must be visible to Lenovo Accounting to ensure the
accuracy of Lenovo’s books and records.
DELEGATION OF
AUTHORITY
POLICY
OUR INVESTORS | 25PROTECTING
COMPANY ASSETS
We have a responsibility to protect any Lenovo asset entrusted
to us from loss, damage, misuse or theft. Examples of company
» Q. I have a side business that has
assets include:
been vetted and approved by
• Physical assets like our products, facilities, equipment, Lenovo management. Can I use
computers and communications systems
my Lenovo-issued computer to
• Financial assets such as funds, credit cards or bank accounts
complete certain tasks related to
• Lenovo’s intellectual property including our trademarks,
copyrights and patents my side business outside of my
• Lenovo proprietary information such as trade secrets, “know
Lenovo work hours?
how,” prototypes, internal and external communications,
digital information, hard copy documents, oral discussions and
A: No, you may not use Lenovo assets, including
interactions via social media channels
your Lenovo-issued computer, to further outside
• Customer, consumer, supplier and employee personal
business ventures.
information
Lenovo’s physical and information security policies protect
our assets from theft, loss, damage or misuse. If there is theft, loss,
damage or misuse of company assets, we are responsible
for immediately reporting the occurrence to the Corporate
Security Department.
We must never use company assets or funds for purposes which
violate the law or applicable policies or procedures. We must not
use any Lenovo intellectual property without proper authorization.
We should never use company assets to create, store or send
content that is illegal or which others might find offensive. If we
leave Lenovo for any reason, we must return all Lenovo assets.
OUR INVESTORS | 26LENOVO INFORMATION &
COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS
» Q. I sometimes send emails to my
spouse and friends to make
Lenovo’s information and communication systems, including personal plans. May I use my
telephones and connections to the Internet, are vital to Lenovo’s
Lenovo computer to do this?
business and should only be used for appropriate business-related
purposes. We may use them for conducting Lenovo business or
A: Yes, as long as any personal use is infrequent
for other incidental purposes authorized by our management such
and does not interfere with your or your co-
as occasional personal use of the telephone, email and the Internet
workers’ job performance. Remember, Lenovo
that does not interfere with company work. We may not use Lenovo
has the right to monitor its email systems, so you
systems to visit Internet sites that feature sexual content, gambling or
may prefer to use your personal email for non-
that advocate intolerance of others. We also may not use them in a
work related communications.
manner that interferes with anyone’s productivity.
OUR INVESTORS | 27PRIVACY & DATA
PROTECTION
» Q. My team is working on launching
a new software experience for
Lenovo respects the privacy of our customers, consumers and
our tablet products that will really
employees consistent with privacy and data protection laws and
Lenovo privacy policies. Our customers, consumers and others improve the consumer’s experience.
must be able to trust that we will only collect, store, share and use
However, to enable that experience,
their personal information for defined legitimate business purposes
it must collect some user data,
and to support and enhance our relationships with them. We
do not sell our consumers’ or customers’ personal information. including personal information.
We appropriately safeguard our consumers’ and customers’ How do I make sure this software
information and comply with internal policies and applicable laws.
complies with Lenovo’s privacy
standards and legal requirements?
In addition, we protect and appropriately use the personal
information of our employees consistent with all legal requirements.
However, employees are advised that workspace and items A: Protecting consumers’ privacy and security
provided to us by Lenovo, including computers, email systems aren’t simply legal requirements—they are part of
and telephone voice mail, are the property of Lenovo. Therefore, our Core Values of trustworthiness and integrity.
Lenovo management reserves the right to access, review the When developing, launching, marketing and
contents of files, desks and lockers, and monitor telephone and supporting our products, we must determine
computer systems, consistent with the law, this Code, and any how any user data collection may impact our
other applicable Lenovo policies. consumers’ privacy rights, their trust in our brand,
and our responsibilities (and those of our vendors
If you believe that customer, consumer or employee data is being and partners) to appropriately use and safeguard
compromised, contact the Legal Department, the ECO or make a user data. Contact the Legal Department, the
report using the LenovoLine. Product Security Team or Information Security for
more information on how to make sure we are
protecting consumer privacy and security.
DATA
PRIVACY
POLICY
OUR INVESTORS | 28LENOVO INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY RIGHTS
Business opportunities and inventions developed through work
belong first to Lenovo, except as otherwise agreed by Lenovo.
Developing or helping to develop inventions or other intellectual
property, during or after work hours, that: 1) relate to Lenovo’s
existing or reasonably anticipated products or services, 2) relate
to your position at Lenovo or 3) are developed using Lenovo’s
corporate resources, are subject to the provisions of your
employee agreements. Ownership of patents remains with Lenovo
even after we leave Lenovo.
INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY
POLICY
OUR INVESTORS | 29LENOVO CONFIDENTIAL &
RESTRICTED INFORMATION
Keeping Lenovo’s confidential and restricted information secret Just as we protect our own confidential or restricted information,
gives us an important competitive advantage in the marketplace. Lenovo respects and confidential or restricted information of
Lenovo’s confidential or restricted information includes information others, including our employees, consumers, customers, suppliers
about Lenovo that is not generally known to the public and and other third parties. We may only use, copy or disclose third-
information that business partners, customers, suppliers and party information in compliance with a valid non-disclosure
vendors have entrusted to us. agreement.
Unauthorized access, disclosure, loss or use of confidential or
restricted information can seriously harm Lenovo, as well as
our suppliers, consumers, customers and employees. We must
» Q. My manager has asked me to prepare
safeguard sensitive information by marking it appropriately, keeping
our department’s budget, which means
it secure and limiting access to those who have a specific need
to know to do their jobs, even within Lenovo. These obligations that I will need to get information about
continue even after employment or assignment ends. You may the salaries of some of my colleagues.
not take paper files or electronic media containing confidential and May I also get information about the
restricted information if you leave the company for any reason.
salaries of other coworkers in other
You may not make copies of confidential or restricted information
departments or comment to a co-
unless you are specifically authorized to do so.
worker about his or her salary?
Sometimes we need to share confidential information with people
A: Absolutely not. While preparing a detailed
outside the company, for example, to work effectively with a
budget presents a legitimate business need
commercial business partner. In such instances, check with your
to obtain certain confidential employee
manager before you share any information. We should make sure
information, you must keep this information
a valid non-disclosure agreement is in place before we share
confidential and share it only with those who
any information, and we should limit the information as much as
have a business need to know it. You must
possible. Consult the applicable non-disclosure agreement and
not use the project as an opportunity to view,
contact your manager or the Legal Department for help. share or comment on sensitive and confidential
information about other employees.
OUR INVESTORS | 30Did you know?
Much of the information we use every day in our jobs at
Lenovo is confidential and must be protected. Here are
Avoid Inadvertent Disclosure—Be careful as you may disclose some examples:
non-public information and secrets without realizing it. You
• Research and technical data
could be overheard in a public place or someone could see
• Business plans or strategies
your computer or phone screen without your knowledge. Avoid
discussing confidential information in airplanes, buses, trains, • Customer lists
taxis, airports, restaurants, restrooms, elevators and company
• Contracts with customers
common areas. Even small pieces of information may be pieced
• Vendor or supplier internal information
together to form a complete picture.
• Commodity and product volumes
Employees attending conferences, symposiums and industry • Current projects
events should use caution when interacting with industry
• Human Resources data
colleagues. Even sharing information with family and friends on
• Financial results and projections
projects and assignments may present a breach of confidentiality.
• Future or unreleased products (prototypes)
• Product roadmaps and development plans
INFORMATION
• Undisclosed product specifications
SECURITY
POLICY • Inventions or trade secrets
• Information concerning potential acquisitions
CLASSIFICATION • Data collected from consumers or from active devices
OF LENOVO
in the field
INFORMATION
OUR INVESTORS | 31GIFTS, ENTERTAINMENT,
THE
CORPORATE HOSPITALITY
MARKETPLACE & TRAVEL
Our relationships with suppliers, customer and others must be
based entirely on sound business decisions and fair dealing.
Business gifts, entertainment and corporate hospitality can help
build relationships, but they can also make it harder to be objective
about the person or company providing them. We may never:
• Solicit, offer, accept or provide any gifts, entertainment,
corporate hospitality or travel if it will obligate or appear to
obligate the person who receives it.
• Solicit, offer, accept or provide to anyone cash or cash
equivalents, lavish or frequent gifts or entertainment, or
anything that might look like a bribe.
• Provide or accept sexually-oriented gifts or entertainment.
GIFT, ENTERTAINMENT,
CORPORATE HOSPITALITY
AND TRAVEL
POLICY
TTHHEE MMAARRKKEETTPPLLAACCEE || 3322GIVING &
RECEIVING GIFTS
Lenovo employees, consultants or contractors may not
offer gifts to, or receive gifts from, our suppliers, customers
or other business-related entities unless all of the following
four conditions as well as the conditions of the Global Gift,
Entertainment, Corporate Hospitality and Travel Policy are met:
1. Moderate value. This value varies by country. An 3. No favored treatment. The gift is not offered in
inexpensive courtesy gift such as a promotional expectation of special or favored treatment.
item has a “moderate value” anywhere. Check the
Global Gift, Entertainment, Corporate Hospitality and 4. Legal and approved. Offering or accepting the gift
Travel Policy or contact the ECO for guidance on what is legal in the location and under the circumstances
gifts may be accepted or provided. where given and does not violate the policies of the
giver or the recipient, and the giver and the recipient
2. Customary and appropriate. The item is considered have both received the appropriate approval to accept
a customary and appropriate business gift in the the gift.
country where it is offered and offering or accepting it
would not reflect poorly on Lenovo if the details were
made public.
THE MARKETPLACE | 33» Q. One of our suppliers that is
ENTERTAINMENT
currently negotiating the renewal of
& TRAVEL
a large contract with Lenovo has
offered me two tickets to the World
Cup. Can I accept them? With appropriate approval, you may give or accept customary
entertainment or business courtesies, such as meals, provided
A: It depends. In this situation, it could be the expenses are reasonable and are not prohibited by law or by
perceived that the tickets were offered as a bribe either party’s policies or standards of conduct. You must receive
to secure the outcome of the contract renewal, pre-approval from your manager before accepting any travel from
so you should not accept the tickets. If we were or providing any travel to any customers, suppliers, vendors or
not in the middle of negotiations with the supplier, other third parties.
we should seek out approval from our direct
manager before accepting the tickets. Gifts or
entertainment above certain limits may also have
additional approvals required. Consult the Global
Gift, Entertainment, Corporate Hospitality and
Travel Policy or contact the ECO for guidance.
TTHHEE MMAARRKKEETTPPLLAACCEE || 3344PROVIDING GIFTS, ENTERTAINMENT
OR TRAVEL TO GOVERNMENT
OFFICIALS OR EMPLOYEES
Laws concerning providing gifts, hospitality and travel to If you are offered cash or cash equivalents, or a gift that has more
government officials (which include executives and employees of than nominal value or which is not customarily offered to others,
government-owned corporations, newspapers, television stations, tell your manager immediately. Appropriate arrangements will be
universities and other entities affiliated with governments, and public made to return or dispose of what has been received and the
international organizations like the U.N.) are complex and can vary supplier or customer will be reminded of Lenovo’s gift policy.
from country to country. In many cases, it is illegal and improper to
provide gifts to government officials. We need to take special care “Gifts” can be anything of value, including tangible items, services,
in this highly regulated area, as Lenovo wishes to avoid even the meals, entertainment, hospitality, transportation, use of vacation
appearance of impropriety. No gift or business courtesy may be facilities, home improvements, membership fees or dues, tickets,
provided to a government official or employee unless the four internships, discounts, charitable donations, offers of employment
conditions on page 33 are met and only if allowed under the and gift certificates. The list of things that might be considered
Lenovo Global Gift, Entertainment, Corporate Hospitality and Travel a gift is endless. An extravagant or expensive gift or extravagant
Policy. entertainment should not be accepted, regardless of the effect it
will have on your business judgment. Consult your manager, the
Contact the ECO, the Legal Department or Government Affairs for ECO or the Legal Department with questions.
guidance about the rules that apply in your area.
I
THE MARKETPLACE | 35ANTI-CORRUPTION LAWS
& BRIBERY
» Q. A government employee suggested
that he would strongly encourage
We comply with the anti-corruption treaties and laws of the countries his employer to award us a contract
in which we do business. We will not directly or indirectly offer or give
if a “donation” is made to one of his
anything of value to any person, including to government officials, to
manager’s favorite charities. What
influence official action or to secure an improper advantage as defined
by applicable laws. “Government officials” include any government should I do?
employee; candidate for public office; or employee of government-
owned or controlled companies, public international organizations or A: Do not agree to the request as it is most likely
political parties. Anything of value includes cash or cash equivalents, a request for a bribe. Any suggestion or request
gifts, meals, travel, political or charitable contributions and job offers for funds that is not defined for an appropriate
for government officials’ relatives. These requirements apply both to business purpose, including charitable donations,
Lenovo employees and representatives and to our channel partners, may be used improperly as a bribe. End the
agents or other third parties working on Lenovo’s behalf no matter conversation and immediately report the matter to
where they are doing business. ECO or the Legal Department.
No Lenovo employee or representative will suffer any retaliation for
refusing to pay or take a bribe or kickback, even if this results in a loss » Q. My manager wants to give a
of business to Lenovo.
gift to an official who participated
in an event at our factory. Is
Lenovo prohibits making any direct payments of any size to
government officials, either directly or through a third party, including that acceptable?
to expedite routine non-discretionary government actions including
processing visas; obtaining permits and licenses; providing police
A: It depends on the gift. In some cases, you may
protection or mail service; or scheduling inspections associated with
provide a gift of nominal value, such as a token
contract performance. These types of payments are sometimes
with the Lenovo logo to an official, but you must
referred to as “facilitating” or “grease” payments.
make sure that any gifts comply with Lenovo’s
Code of Conduct and Gift, Entertainment,
Corporate Hospitality and Travel policy. We must
ANTI-CORRUPTION
be very careful in this area as gifts to government
& ANTI-BRIBERY
employees/officials create a high risk for the
POLICY
company and may be seen as a bribe.
THE MARKETPLACE | 36» Q. I am told that government GOVERNMENT
approvals cannot be obtained in
CUSTOMERS
some countries without making a
payment to a government official.
Is it permissible to hire a consultant Many governments around the world have laws, regulations and
contractual requirements that apply to the purchase of products
to help with government approvals,
from private suppliers like Lenovo. These laws are intended to
and simply not ask him where the
ensure that governmental entities can buy products and services
money goes? at competitive prices and to protect against attempts to improperly
influence the bid process. Lenovo must comply with all applicable
A: No. There is nothing improper about using procurement laws, rules and contractual requirements when selling
consultants but the law prohibits bribery products to government entities—which may include schools,
payments made directly or indirectly. You cannot hospitals and other entities in addition to government agencies.
allow third parties to make improper payments Be familiar with local laws, regulations and Lenovo guidelines
for Lenovo, and you should always know what a applicable to government sales in your geography. If you need
consultant is doing on Lenovo’s behalf. guidance, consult the Legal Department.
TTHHEE MMAARRKKEETTPPLLAACCEE || 3377PRODUCT &
QUALITY SERVICE
Lenovo is committed to quality and achieving consumer
satisfaction by delivering superior products and experiences.
PRODUCT
QUALITY
POLICY
REPRESENTATIONS
REGARDING LENOVO
PRODUCTS
We must ensure that all representations we or our agents make
about Lenovo products and services, such as about speed,
battery life and durability are truthful and accurate. This includes
representations made in marketing or product literature, verbally,
on the Internet, in social media or sales presentations. We must
never make deliberately misleading or false claims about Lenovo’s
or our competitors’ products, and when commenting about
our products on social media, we should never misrepresent our
affiliation with Lenovo, and where required by law, we should
disclose that we are employees of Lenovo.
THE MARKETPLACE | 38TREATING OUR
BUSINESS PARTNERS
WITH INTEGRITY
We treat consumers, customers, competitors and suppliers fairly
in all of our activities. We will not manipulate or abuse confidential
information. We base our decisions on legitimate business-related
criteria, not on personal relationships or interests. In deciding
among competing suppliers of any size, we should weigh the
facts honestly and impartially and follow Lenovo’s procurement
process. We seek to do business with organizations that comply
with applicable laws and follow principles consistent with the ones
in this Code.
THE MARKETPLACE | 39EXTERNAL
COMMUNICATIONS/
MEDIA RELATIONS
We will not make statements to the news media on Lenovo’s • Communications with journalists and the media are
behalf, or provide company information to outside parties, without only managed by Lenovo Communications.
authorization. Good judgment and common sense must always
be used when posting on social media outlets. Remember, once • Communications with securities or financial analysts
a statement is posted, it cannot be retracted. Consider how the and with shareholders are only managed by Lenovo
public will view your comments. Review Lenovo’s Social Media Investor Relations.
Guidelines on lenovocentral.com. Contact the Legal Department or
Corporate Communications with questions. • Communications with outside lawyers and law
enforcement are only managed by Lenovo’s Legal
Department or Corporate Security.
SOCIAL
MEDIA
GUIDELINES
THE MARKETPLACE | 40PROTECTING INFORMATION
& INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
BELONGING TO OTHERS
While we can gather information available in the general marketplace,
we may not use any illegal or improper means to acquire a » Q. Lenovo just hired a sales manager
competitor’s trade secrets or other confidential or competitive
from one of our competitors. He
information. Improper solicitation or intelligence-gathering could
knows their product and sales road
subject you or Lenovo to civil and criminal legal penalties. Employees
joining Lenovo after having worked for any other company may not map for the next year. If he shares
share any of the other company’s trade secrets or other confidential this information, can we adjust our
information with Lenovo.
plan to compete accordingly?
If we obtain information that may constitute a trade secret or
A: No. We may not ask new employees to share
confidential information of another business, even by mistake, or if we
confidential information belonging to their previous
have questions about the legality of information gathering, we must
employer, and they certainly should not provide it.
consult the ECO or the Legal Department.
Materials we use every day are protected by copyright law, including
software, books, audio and video files, trade journals and magazines.
At Lenovo, we respect and work to protect others’ copyrights and
do not copy, alter or distribute copyrighted material without the
permission of the copyright owner. If you acquire software for your
personal use, do not copy any part of such software in any work you
do for Lenovo, nor should we place such software on any Lenovo-
owned computer system or other Lenovo property.
INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY
POLICY
THE MARKETPLACE | 41FAIR COMPETITION
As a global corporate citizen, Lenovo is responsible for complying Do not make agreements with competitors
with what are called “antitrust” or “competition” laws. Under these No employee should enter into an agreement or discussion with
laws, agreements among competitors that restrict trade or price any competitor that would set prices, limit the availability on
competition are illegal. the market of goods or services or agree to boycott a customer
or supplier.
Lenovo employees must maintain independence of judgment and
action in designing, producing, pricing and selling our products Avoid sharing competitively sensitive information
and services and must avoid even the appearance of colluding or Employees should not discuss any competitive information with a
making an agreement with a competitor. Local laws may vary, but competitor including: prices or discounts; terms of sale including
the following principles apply everywhere Lenovo does business. credit, profits, profit margins or costs; allocation of customers or
markets; boycotts; customers; suppliers; market share; distribution
practices; bids or intents to bid; sales territories or markets;
selection, classification, rejection or termination of customers.
» Q. At a recent conference, I met an old Do not make false or deceptive comments regarding
friend who is now vice president for a competitors
competitor. During the conversation, We must ensure that our statements about Lenovo’s competitors
he volunteered some information
are based upon current, accurate, complete and relevant
about their pricing strategy and future
data. To avoid even the appearance of impropriety, we do not
pricing trends. I quickly told him this
comment on another company’s business reputation or financial
was an inappropriate conversation and
or legal problems.
walked away, and then left a voicemail
for my contact in the Lenovo Legal
Be careful when entering pricing agreements with resellers
Department. Was I overreacting?
Setting or attempting to influence resellers’ prices or margins may
violate competition laws. Seek advice from the Legal Department
A: You did the right thing. If you find yourself in a
for guidance specific to your region. If you have questions with
meeting where competitors are discussing pricing
regard to any of these guidelines contact the Legal Department.
strategy, you should leave immediately and contact
the Legal Department immediately about what
happened. Even if you don’t use the information,
COMPETITION
there may be a perception that you are participating
POLICY
in activities prohibited by competition laws, which
can create legal issues for you or Lenovo.
TTHHEE MMAARRKKEETTPPLLAACCEE || 4422» Q. A supplier has asked me to put a
low value on a shipping invoice so
that the supplier doesn’t have to
pay duties. Since we didn’t buy the
IMPORT & EXPORT
equipment and Lenovo won’t be
the importer, does it matter what CONTROLS
value is used?
We comply with all applicable import and export laws, regulations,
A: You must always list the accurate values on
and restrictions. Import and export laws apply to:
any documents or records, including shipping
invoices. You must never falsify invoices for any
• Products, services, information, technology, payments
reason, including lowering or circumventing
for goods or services, countries or third parties (including
customs’ duties, fees or charges or for expediting
people) we do business with.
transit times. If you have questions about what to
• Technical data relating to the design, production and use of
do, contact Global Trade Regulation in the Legal
products or services.
Department.
When we travel internationally on company business, we, and the
» Q.
items we carry with us, are subject to laws governing what we import
If an employee carries a product
and export. Employees are responsible for knowing the laws that
in his briefcase to deliver pertain to them. When in doubt, employees should contact Global
Trade Regulation in the Legal Department.
to another Lenovo employee
in another country, does that
mean the product will be
“imported” and does it require
special consideration?
A: Yes, any product that is not for your personal
use is subject to the relevant import/export
requirements and procedures. Seek guidance
from Global Trade Regulation in the Legal
Department.
TTHHEE MMAARRKKEETTPPLLAACCEE || 4433COMMUNITY
& SOCIETY
THE ENVIRONMENT
We are committed to promoting and maintaining environmentally
responsible manufacturing and other business practices for
the benefit of our customers, consumers, employees and
the communities in which we operate. We strive for continual
improvement by developing specific programs that address the
environmental cost and impact of our activities, products
and services.
ENVIRONMENTAL
AFFAIRS
POLICY
LENOVO
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORTS
CCOOMMMMUUNNIITTYY && SSOOCCIIEETTYY || 4444POLITICAL PROCESS
As a global business, Lenovo maintains good relationships with
governments around the world and strives to be a good corporate
citizen everywhere we operate. Lenovo Government Relations is
responsible for coordinating Lenovo’s communications, lobbying
and other interactions with government officials and policy makers.
Lenovo employees should not lobby, communicate with public
officials on policy matters, make political contributions, provide
equipment or services or engage in political activities on Lenovo’s
behalf except in accordance with applicable law or policy and in
coordination with Lenovo Government Relations. Of course, you
may participate in political activities on an individual basis, with
your own resources, and on your own time.
For additional information or guidance, please contact the Legal
Department or Government Relations.
GOVERNMENT RELATIONS, POLITICAL
CONTRIBUTIONS,
AND PARTICIPATION IN POLITICS
COMMUNITY & SOCIETY | 45ANTI-MONEY COMMITMENT TO
LAUNDERING HUMAN RIGHTS
Money laundering is a process designed to conceal an illegal Lenovo is committed to respecting human rights and conducting
source of money to make it appear legitimate. Lenovo will not business legally, ethically and with integrity. As part of this
directly or indirectly participate in such practices. Use good commitment, Lenovo operates with respect to the universal human
judgment when dealing with customers or business partners, and rights identified in the UN Declaration on Human Rights and in
immediately report any unusual or suspicious activities including accordance with the UN Global Compact. Lenovo does not permit
large payments in cash, arrangements for payment to be made by the use of child labor, forced labor or physical punishment in any
someone not involved in the transaction and payments made from Lenovo operations.
unusual sources and in different currencies than those provided
for in a contract. Direct any questions or concerns to the ECO or
Legal Department.
HUMAN RIGHTS
POLICY
COMMUNITY & SOCIETY | 46COMMITMENT TO
COMMUNITY
We are proud of Lenovo’s contributions to the quality of life and culture » Q. A large charitable organization
as well as the economic and social development of the communities recently purchased some
where we do business. Lenovo encourages each of our facilities
computers from Lenovo. As the
to become actively involved in their community by sponsoring and
sales manager, can I show my
participating in initiatives that contribute to a better quality of life.
Lenovo strongly encourages our employees to support this goal appreciation by making a donation
by volunteering and participating in charitable and community
from my sales budget?
activities as well as professional development associations.
A: Charitable contributions that are linked to
When engaging in community activities, we may encounter
sales or potential sales could hurt Lenovo’s
situations covered by the Code. For example, we should follow
reputation and are improper. Lenovo’s charitable
the guidance regarding “conflicts of interests” and may not use
contributions should be determined based on the
Lenovo resources for any outside activities without permission.
organization’s need, Lenovo’s ability to help and
When we participate in an activity that Lenovo does not sponsor,
a number of other factors. For further guidance,
we should not imply the company’s support without the
contact the Government Relations Department,
appropriate authorization.
Legal Department or ECO.
COMMUNITY & SOCIETY | 47WHERE TO GO NO RETALIATION
FOR HELP
If you seek advice, raise a concern relating to a potential
compliance issue, or report suspected misconduct in good
faith, you are doing the right thing. We strongly encourage
We work hard to foster an environment of open, honest
such actions. Lenovo will not tolerate retaliation against
communication. If you have a concern related to the Code or
you. Anyone engaging in retaliation will be subject to
about a legal, compliance or business conduct issue, you have
disciplinary action including termination of employment.
several options. What matters most is that you ask the question
or raise the concern. Confidentiality will be maintained to the
extent possible, given the company’s need to investigate and
resolve the issue raised and to comply with the law. You can
speak with:
• Your manager (or another manager you trust)
• The Lenovo ECO (ethics@lenovo.com)
• Human Resources
• Lenovo Legal Department
• Lenovo Internal Audit
• The LenovoLine
• In China, you can report misconduct to Lenovo’s
Independent Commission Against Corruption
(ICAC@lenovo.com)
COMMUNITY & SOCIETY | 48