LG Code of Ethics
We, at LG, share and believe in two key corporate principles - "Creating value for
customers" and "Respecting human dignity." Based on these principles and in the
spirit of our Management Charter, we strive to promote self-governing management
and its accompanying responsibilities. It is our intention to uphold the principle of
free market economy, which embodies the spirit of fair competition. We are
committed to attaining our goal of becoming a global leader, and as such we will
continuously pursue mutual benefits for our stakeholders on the basis of trust and
cooperation. LG is committed to act uprightly and make value judgments in
accordance to the code of ethics.
Chapter 1. Responsibilities and Obligations to Customers
We highly regard the opinions of our customers in the belief that they form the very
basics of our business. We seek to secure unconditional trust from our customers
by continuously providing them practical values.
1. Respect for Customers
We value the opinions of our customers and validate their real needs at all times.
Therefore we regard our customers as the primary standard for our decisions and
conducts.
2. Creating Value
We work to create value for our customers for it is through customer satisfaction
that we build the foundation of our prosperity. We continuously create practical
values that fully benefit and satisfy our customers.
3. Providing Value
We are always truthful to our customers, and are bound to keep our promises. We
offer top quality products and services to our customers at reasonable prices and
respond to their requests with speed and accuracy.
Chapter 2. Fair Competition
Our global business activities conform to relevant laws and regulations of the host
nations. At the same time, we employ only fair and just means in securing our
competitive advantage in the global market.
1. Pursuit of Free Competition
We uphold the principle of the free market economic system. Therefore we pursuefree competition and earn our customers' trust through top quality products and
services. We compete fairly and capably with our competitors, but do not intrude
upon their interests, or exploit their weaknesses.
2. Compliance with Laws and Regulations
We conduct our domestic and overseas business activities in strict accordance with
local laws and regulations, and with respect for local business customs.
Chapter 3. Fair Transactions
All business transactions will occur based on the principles of fair competition with
equal opportunities for all entities to participate. We build trust and cooperative
relationships through fair and transparent transactions. Such relationships are built
with a long-term perspective for mutual growth.
1. Equal Opportunity
We offer equal opportunities to all qualified companies seeking to become our
business partners.
All applicants are registered and selected in a rational manner following a fair and
objective evaluation process.
2. Fair Transaction Procedures
All business transactions are conducted under equitable circumstances. The terms
and procedures of the transaction are to be sufficiently discussed between parties
involved. The use of prominence in position to execute an unjust transaction is
forbidden. Information required for transaction is exchanged through appropriate
procedures in timely manner. Transaction results are evaluated on a regular basis
where complementary measures are mutually taken.
3. Support and Aid for Business Partners
We support the long-term growth of our dealers and vendors by enhancing their
competitiveness through technological and managerial assistance. We share the
profits derived from business innovations.
We pursue cooperation with our dealers and vendors in a mutual effort to promote
a healthy trading environment and maintain a fair trading system.
Chapter 4. Basic Ethics for Employees
Based on honesty and fairness, LG employees establish a correct values and fulfill
the duties through continuous self-development and fairness in performance.1. Basic Ethics
LG employees take pride in their company and always maintain an honest and fair
attitude. LG employees keep a high standard of morality and continuously strive to
maintain their personal dignity and company's honor.
2. Completion of Duty
LG employees faithfully accomplish their duties in compliance to the visions and
policies of the company.
Assigned duties are carried out in the best possible and fairest manner while
observing relevant laws and regulations.
LG employees protect and preserve company property and do not divulge
confidential information gained during employment.
LG employees exert themselves in enhancing work efficiency through open
communication and cooperation with colleagues and related departments.
3. Self Development
LG employees formulate their respective ideal image of an exemplary employee and
constantly strive to conform to the image through continuous self development.
4. Fairness in Performance
LG employees carry out their duties based on honesty and fairness, seeking to
foster a sound business culture.
While performing their duties, LG employees do not accept any form of financial
benefit from interested parties that may obstruct fair judgment. LG employees do
not participate in any immoral and unethical behaviors as prescribed by social
norms in performing their duties to the company or in their personal lives.
5. Avoidance of Conflict with Company Interests
LG employees avoid any individual behaviors or relationships that are in conflict
with company interests.
LG employees do not use company property to pursue their personal interests
without prior permission.
Chapter 5. Corporate Responsibilities to Employees
LG endeavors to respect the human dignity of its employees and provides fair
treatment based on their abilities and performances. LG also strives to foster
creativity among its employees.
1. Respect for Human Dignity
LG treats each employee with trust and affection and places a high value onindividual human dignity.
LG takes great efforts to help employees attain pride and personal fulfillment by
instilling a sense of ownership in their jobs.
LG establishes fair regulations and educational guidelines necessary for employees
to perform their duties.
2. Fair Treatment
LG offers equal opportunities to all its employees based on their abilities and talents.
LG applies fair measures to evaluate abilities and performances of its employees
and rewards them accordingly.
3. Promoting Creativity
LG makes utmost efforts to promote a working environment conducive to creative
thinking and autonomous behaviors.
LG develops and manages its human resources on a long-term basis and gives
active support to cultivating employees’ abilities.
LG creates a mature organizational culture that highlights mutual trust,
understanding and respect for personal lifestyle.
Chapter 6. Responsibilities to Society and the Country
LG contributes to national welfare and social development through rational business
expansion providing stable growth as a corporation and protecting stockholder’s
interests.
1. Rational Business Development
LG conducts its business with respect to the social values at home and abroad. LG
promotes its business expansions based on stable corporate growth.
2. Protection of Stockholder Interest
LG protects its stockholders' interests by earning healthy profits through effective
management.
3. Contribution to Social Development
LG contributes to national and social development through job creation, tax
payment, and promotion of cultural and welfare programs.
4. Environmental Conservation
LG strives to prevent environmental pollution and employs all measures necessary
to conserve precious natural resources.