MICROSOFT’S STANDARDS OF BUSINESS CONDUCT
TRUST CODE
MICROSOFT’S STANDARDS OF BUSINESS CONDUCT”
Team,
Each one of us shapes our culture through our words
andactions. We strive to build a diverse and inclusive
culturethat embraces learning and fosters trust—a culture
whereevery employee can do their best work.
Making good decisions and ethical choices in our
workbuilds trust in each other and with our customers
andpartners. You should never compromise your
personalintegrity or Microsoft’s reputation and trust
inexchange for any short-term gain.
We aremore likely to make ethical choices whenintegrity,
honesty, and compliance guide our decisionmaking. We
should always be transparent about ourmotives, learn
from our mistakes, and ask for help whenfaced with a
difficult situation. I expect leaders andmanagers to foster a
culture where employees feel free toask questions and
raise concerns when somethingdoesn’tseem right.
Our Standards of Business Conduct (our “Trust
Code”)emphasizes the role that each of us plays in
buildingtrust, and the approach you should take in
makingdecisions. When we apply these principles in our
dailywork, we can move forward with confidence in our
abilityto make good decisions that build trust and
empower ourcustomers and partners to achieve more.
Thank you very much.
“
Satya Nadella
Chairman and CEO
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 2TABLE OF
CONTENTS
Our Mission Report a Concern
OUR CULTURE Achieve More The Role of Managers
ANDVALUES
Using the Trust Code Speaking Up
Honor Privacy
TRUST Don’t Make Improper Payments
WITH OURCUSTOMERS
Compete Fairly
Respect Laws Around the World Respect and Promote Human Rights
TRUST
Develop and Deploy Responsible AI
WITH GOVERNMENTS Design Accessible Products
&COMMUNITIES and Services
Foster Diversity and Inclusion
Contribute to a Safe and
Productive Workplace
TRUST Avoid Conflicts of Interest
WITH EACH OTHER
Don’t Trade on Inside Information Safeguard Microsoft’s Resources
TRUST
Keep Accurate Records and Contracts
WITH OUR INVESTORS Protect Confidential Information
AND THE PUBLIC and Intellectual Property
Communicate Accurately to the Public
Use Trustworthy Representatives
Treat Gifts, Hospitality, and
TRUST Travel Responsibly
WITH OUR
REPRESENTATIVES
Choose Suppliers with Integrity
Upholding Our Trust Code
UPHOLDING OUR
TRUST CODETrust
OUR CULTURE & VALUES
Our Mission 5
Achieve More 6
How to Use the Trust Code 7
How to Report a Concern 9
Speak Up When Something’s Not Right 10
The Role of Managers 12
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 4OUR
MISSION
Empower every person and every
organization on the planet
to achieve more.
ACHIEVING OUR
MISSION
OUR CULTURE
Growth Mindset
Customer Obsessed
OUR VALUES
One Microsoft
Respect
Integrity Diverse and Inclusive
Accountability Making a Difference
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 5ACHIEVE
MORE
How do we earn and Microsoft’s Standards
build trust? of Business Conduct
It starts by applying our culture Microsoft’s Standards of
and values to build lasting Business Conduct (our “Trust
relationships inside and outside Code”) will show you how we
Microsoft. will use our culture and values
to build and preserve trust with
Our values are the enduring our customers, governments,
principles that guide us to do investors, partners,
business with integrity as we representatives, and each
strive to win trust every day. other, so we can achieve more
together.
Our culture is our operating
framework—who we are and
how we behave.
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 6HOW TO USE THE TRUST CODE TO MAKE
GOOD DECISIONS
Making good decisions and
ethical choices builds trust
between each of us and the
people we interact with.
But not all situations you encounter are
straightforward—how do you make the
best choice when facing difficult or
unclear circumstances? How do you
navigate ethical dilemmas?
While our Trust Code won’t tell you
exactly what to do in every situation, it
serves as a guide to help you make
good decisions and navigate complex
situations where the answer might not
always be clear.
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 7When faced with a difficult
decision or situation
follow these steps:
PAUSE
Does a situation make you uneasy? Are your instincts
telling you something’s not quite right?
Pause and consider how to approach the situation.
1
THINK
Is your approach consistent with Microsoft’s culture and
the values in the Trust Code? Does it build or maintain
trust? Never sacrifice long-term reputation and trust for a
short-term benefit.
2
ASK
Ask questions and get help. Talk to CELA, Finance, or HR.
Get help from your manager or another manager.
These resources are here to help you make the right
decision. Email buscond@microsoft.comfor help.
3
Speak up when something is not right so that we
Report an Integrity Concern
can address the problem.
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 8HOW TO
REPORT A CONCERN
Raising a concern should be as easy as possible. That’s why there are a variety of
ways to tell us when something’s wrong.
Choose whichever reporting option you are most comfortable using.
Whichever option you choose, your confidentiality will be protected.
Where permitted by the law of your country, your reports may be made anonymously
through our external hotline, or you can ask the Compliance and Ethics Team to treat
your report as anonymous.
Web www.microsoftintegrity.com Fax 1-425-708-7177
Email buscond@microsoft.com
By mail
Business & Regulatory Investigations
Microsoft Corporation
Phone 1-877-320-6738 One Microsoft Way
Redmond, WA 98052 United States
Intl. Collect +1-720-904-6844
Additional Resources On mobile? Scan this QR
code to send us an email.
In addition, you can always raise concerns with your
manager, any Microsoft manager, HR, Finance, or CELA.
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 9SPEAK UP
WHEN SOMETHING’S NOT RIGHT
Part of building a culture of trust
is learning to speak up when
something’s not right, so that we
can address the problem.
RAISING AN
INTEGRITY
CONCERN
You don’t have to have all the
details or be sure that something is
wrong to raise an integrity
concern.
We strive to treat your reports
seriously, fairly, and to act promptly
if something needs to be
fixed based on what we learn.
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 10MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 11
WE PROHIBIT RETALIATION
It takes courage to speak up when something’s not right. We understand that you
might be uncomfortable or anxious. That is why we prohibit retaliation.
We prohibit retaliation for:
Refusing to do something that violates the Trust
Code, Microsoft’s policies, or the law, even if your
refusal results in the loss of business to Microsoft.
Raising a concern in good faith about potential
misconduct.
Cooperating with an investigation.
Our policies make anyone who retaliates against an employee for engaging in any of
these activities subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
!MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 12
THE ROLE OF
MANAGERS
As a leader, you have a
special responsibility for
setting the culture and
the work environment
for your team.
The way you make decisions, and handle concerns, different opinions,
and even bad news, will set the foundation for trust with your teams,
customers, and stakeholders. Your success and the success of your team
depends on the trust you build together.TAKE THESE SIMPLE STEPS TO BUILD A CULTURE OF
TRUST AND INTEGRITY ON YOUR TEAM:
Communicate
Regularly communicate the importance of ethics and integrity to your
team and be clear that you expect work to be done ethically.
Model
Lead by example, by modeling ethical decision-making and good
judgment.
Question
Ensure your team knows that for results to matter, they must be
achieved the right way. Then, ask questions and satisfy yourself that
results have been achieved the right way.
Listen
As a manager it’s critical that you coach and show care for your
teams. Make sure your team knows you will listen, even if they have
something difficult to say.
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 13HOW MANAGERS SHOULD
HANDLE CONCERNS
If someone comes to you with a concern, you have a special
responsibility to listen and act. Handling concerns appropriately
is critical to preserving trust and protecting Microsoft.
If someone raises a concern, follow these steps:
Remove distractions and listen Respond respectfully and take
carefully. Thank the person for every concern seriously, even if you
speaking up—remember that disagree. Show that you are
they’ve just done something difficult committed to solving the problem.
and very important for Microsoft.
Take steps to protect the person’s If you learn of a concern or observe
confidentiality—avoid discussing conduct that may violate the Anti-
the conversation with others on Harassment and Anti-Discrimination
your team. Policy, you must contact AskHR in a
timely manner.
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 14As a manager, you should feel empowered to resolve performance issues yourself,
but you should escalate integrity concerns about business ethics or misconduct to
Microsoft Business & Regulatory Investigations.
If you have a question or are not sure whether you can or should resolve the issue
yourself, you can always email the Business Conduct and Compliance alias
(buscond@microsoft.com) for advice.
Email Business Conduct & Compliance
Speak Up when something is not right so that we can
address the problem.
Reporting Concerns about
Report an Integrity Concern
Misconduct Policy
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 15Trust
WITH OUR CUSTOMERS
Honor Privacy 18
Don’t Make Improper Payments 19
Compete Fairly 21
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 16When making decisions,
ask yourself, does this
build or harm trust with
our customers?
​Our ability to meet people and organizations
where they are, with what they want and need,
is our path to success.
​Our customers must be at the center of
everything we do. Look for ways to engage
our customers, advocate for them, and
empower them to achieve more.
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 17HONOR We honor privacy by being transparent
about how we handle customer data,
PRIVACY
including personal data.
We want our customers to trust us to
protect their privacy and use their data in
the ways that they permit us.
<HHooww wwee hhoonnoorr pprriivvaaccyy>
By following local privacy and data By providing clear and accurate privacy
protection laws
notices when collecting or processing
personal data, including employee
personal data.
By honoring privacy choices by using By protecting our customers’ data
customer data to provide the services through building secure products and
customers have agreed to. services.
Learn more by visiting the links below
Privacy Policy (internal only) Privacy Principles
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 18DON’T MAKE
IMPROPER PAYMENTS
We are committed to truthful and Winning and preserving customers’
transparent interactions with trust every day is more important
customers, and we prohibit any than any benefit we might get from
attempt to influence their decisions doing business improperly. In some
through improper payments. parts of the world, paying bribes to
get business may be something that
Corruption can harm our customers others do. We prohibit them.
in many ways, including sometimes
causing them to pay more than they We would rather lose the business
should. than secure it through a bribe,
kickback, or other improper benefit.
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 19<HHooww wwee bbuuiilldd ttrruusstt>
By refusing to offer or By prohibiting corrupt In any deal, we will
pay bribes or payments of all kinds, avoid hidden terms or
kickbacks to anyone. including payments to arrangements and
secure permits or reduce complexity
approvals, and small wherever possible,
payments to speed up a because transparent
routine government transactions reduce the
process (often known as risk of a bribe or
a “facilitating payment”). kickback.
By using partners that By making sure that any By hiring candidates
have a reputation for gifts, hospitality, or based on their merits,
integrity, and reporting travel we offer to and not making hiring
signs that a government officials or decisions to benefit a
representative is customers are customer or
unethical or could be reasonable and government official.
paying a bribe. appropriate, and pre-
approved where
necessary.
If we make charitable donations, we will do so to support a legitimate charitable cause, not
as part of an exchange of favors.
Anti-CorruptionPolicy Giving Gifts, Hospitality & Travel to
Government Officials(internal only)
Commitment to Anti-Corruption
and Anti-Bribery
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 20COMPETE
FAIRLY
The way we compete is as important as the
result we achieve.
Healthy competition and fair business practices
put our customers first by giving them access to
a variety of products and services at fair prices.
Competing fairly ensures that we meet our
business objectives with our integrity intact.
<How we compete fairly>
> By avoiding any formal or informal agreements with competitors that limit competition.
> By respecting competitive bidding processes, and not rigging or fixing the outcomes or
helping anyone else do so.
> By not dictating the prices that our independent channel partners charge their customers.
> By gathering competitive intelligence using only appropriate resources, being truthful, and
not misrepresenting who we are.
Learn more by visiting the links below
Fair Competition Policy Competitive Intelligence Policy
(internal only) (internal only)
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 22Trust
WITH GOVERNMENTS
& COMMUNITIES
Respect Laws Aroundthe World 23
Design Accessible Productsand Services 25
Respect and Promote HumanRights 26
Develop and Deploy Responsible AI 27
When making decisions, ask yourself: does this
foster trust with governments and communities?
Achieving our mission depends on governments and
communities knowing that we will follow the laws
and customs of the countries where we operate, and
respect human rights across the globe.
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 22RESPECT LAWS
AROUND THE WORLD
We operate around the globe and commit to respecting the
laws wherever we do business.
This helps us to build trust with governments, strengthen the
communities where we live and work, and contribute to a fair
society where we enjoy the protection of these same laws.
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 23<How we respect laws
around the world>
By respecting and complying By being honest and
with global trade controls and transparent in our discussions
economic sanctions that with government
prohibit us from doing business representatives and officials.
with certain countries,
governments, entities, and
individuals.
By responding truthfully, By observing and complying
appropriately, and promptly to with laws that govern how our
government inquiries requests technology may be distributed
for information. and used internationally.
By following the laws and
regulations of the US and of all
the places where we operate.
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 24DESIGN ACCESSIBLE
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
We prioritize inclusive design in the development of our products and
services.
With over one billion people around the world with disabilities, we have an
opportunity and a responsibility to design inclusively. Investing in accessibility
helps Microsoft support our customers to meet inclusion goals. We believe
there are no limits to what people can achieve when technology reflects the
diversity of everyone who uses it.
<How we design accessibly>
By including and learning from people with a range of perspectives,
designing inclusively and putting people in the center from the very start
of the design process.
By making our products accessible to all users, including users with
vision, hearing, learning, mobility, mental health, age-related, sensory,
and speech disabilities.
Accessibility Portal Accessibility Academy Accessibility Policy
(internal only) (internal only) (internal only)
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 25RESPECT AND PROMOTE
HUMAN RIGHTS
We are committed to respecting and promoting human rights to empower people across the globe
to use technology for the good of humanity.
<How we respect and promote human rights>
We respect and advocate for the rule of law and human rights under
international laws, principles, and norms.
We believe that in the long run, our presence and responsible
engagement with people, governments, and other stakeholders in
countries with significant human rights challenges often holds greater
promise for the advancement of human rights.
When we face requirements from governments to provide user data or
remove content, we verify whether the government demands are valid,
binding, and otherwise comply with the rule of law.
We conduct due diligence to assess the impact of our technologies on
human rights. We learn from stakeholders to challenge our thinking,
develop and refine our policies and practices, and improve our technologies
and how we provide them to fulfill our commitment to human rights.
Our Commitmentto HumanRights
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 26DEVELOP AND DEPLOY
RESPONSIBLE AI
We are committed to
developing and deploying AI
technologies in a way that is
consistent with our AI
principles, Responsible AI
Standard, our company mission,
values, and our commitment to
human rights.
We strive to create systems that people
trust. This means keeping people and their
goals at the center of system design
decisions and respecting enduring values
like fairness, reliability and safety, privacy
and security, inclusiveness, transparency,
and accountability.
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 27<How we develop and deploy Responsible AI>
By following the Microsoft By reporting Sensitive By asking for help when in
Responsible AI Standard Uses to the Office of need of additional
when developing and Responsible AI and guidance.
deploying AI technologies. following the guidance
you receive.
Learn more by visiting the links below
Office of Responsible AI
(internal only)
Microsoft Responsible AI Policy
(internal only)
Report a Sensitive Use
(internal only)
Microsoft Responsible AI Principles
Microsoft’s Responsible AI Standard
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 28Trust
WITH EACH OTHER
Foster Diversity and Inclusion 30
A Safeand ProductiveWorkplace 32
Avoid Conflicts of Interest 34
When making decisions, ask yourself: does this
improve how we work together as One Microsoft?
The strongest contributions come from teams who
trust each other—those that can be open, honest,
and constructive with one another.
It takes all of us working together to cultivate an
atmosphere of mutual respect, inclusion, and
collaboration.
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 29FOSTER
DIVERSITY &
INCLUSION
We work better
together because of our
differences, not despite
them.
We believe that we best
serve everyone on the
planet and enrich our
own culture through the
diverse skills, experiences,
and backgrounds that
each of us brings.
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 30<How we foster diversity and inclusion>
By providing equal By remaining committed By examining our
employment to hiring people with unconscious biases and
opportunities to all disabilities and providing taking steps to create an
qualified candidates and reasonable inclusive culture that makes
employees. accommodations to every employee feel
qualified employees. welcome.
By not discriminating based on age,
ancestry, color, family or medical care
leave, gender identity or expression,
genetic information, marital status,
medical condition, national origin,
physical or mental disability, political
affiliation, protected veteran status,
race, religion, sex (including pregnancy),
sexual orientation, or any other
characteristic protected by applicable
laws, regulations, and ordinances.
Learn more by visiting the links below
Global Diversityand Inclusion
Equal Employment Opportunity Policy
(internal only)
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 31We are committed to a work environment
CONTRIBUTE TO A
that empowers everyone to do their best
SAFE AND
work. A safe workplace inspires trust and
PRODUCTIVE allows us all to contribute and succeed.
WORKPLACE
Discrimination, harassment, and unsafe
working conditions diminish what we can
achieve together.
Learn more by visiting the links below
Anti-Harassment and Discrimination Policy
(internal only)
Entertainment Policy(internal only)
Workplace Violence Policy
(internal only)
Drug-free Workplace Policy
(internal only)
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 32<How we contribute to a safe and productive workplace>
By integrating sound safety By treating others with respect
and health practices into our and not tolerating harassment
operations and complying with or discrimination.
workplace safety regulations.
By resolving problems By not working under the
respectfully, and never influence of drugs or alcohol.
resorting to acts or threats of
violence.
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 33AVOID CONFLICTS
OF INTEREST
This means keeping people and their
goals at the center of system design
decisions and respecting enduring
values like fairness, reliability and safety,
privacy and security, inclusiveness,
transparency, and accountability.
<How we avoid conflicts of interest>
By acting in the best interests of Microsoft.
By avoiding or withdrawing from situations where a
personal relationship or financial interest in another
company might influence how we make decisions in
our jobs.
(List continued below)
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 34By understanding that a conflict of interest can exist
even if we are convinced that our decisions will not be
affected by the outside relationship.
When conflicts of interest arise, we disclose them and
get advice or approval.
Before taking on outside work, we ensure that the
work does not harm Microsoft’s business interests or
break any employee agreements we have signed.
Learn more by visiting the links below
Conflicts of Interest Outside Work Policy
(internal only) (internal only)
Conflicts of Interest Approval Tool
(internal only)
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 35Trust
WITH OUR INVESTORS
& THE PUBLIC
Don’t Trade on Inside Information 37
Keep Accurate Recordsand Contracts 39
Communicate Accurately to the Public 41
Safeguard Microsoft’s Resources 43
Protect Confidential Information& IP 44
When making decisions, ask yourself:
does this strengthen or harm Microsoft’s reputation
with investors and the public?
Our investors must have confidence that we will create
value for them in a responsible and thoughtful way.
Earn their trust by protecting our assets and information,
accurately stating where we are headed as a company,
and honestly communicating with them and with the
public.
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 36DON’T TRADE ON
INSIDE INFORMATION
To maintain trust with our investors and the
public we respect securities laws, which
means we do not trade while in possession
of material, nonpublic information.
In our work, we may become aware of
material, nonpublic information about
Microsoft or companies we do business with.
Information is “material” if a reasonable
investor would consider it important in
deciding whether to buy or sell a company’s
securities. Information is “nonpublic” if it has
not been broadly communicated to the
investing public.
Trading Microsoft stock or the stock of any
other company based on this information not
only breaks trust with our investors and the
public, but is also illegal, violates company
policy, and is unfair to other investors.
Learn more by visiting the links below
Insider Trading Policy Restricted Trading Window Policy
(internal only) (internal only)
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 37MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 38
<How we
build trust>
By never buying or selling any securities based on material,
nonpublic information of Microsoft or acquired through our
employment.
By never giving someone else (for example, a friend, spouse, or
broker) a “tip” regarding material, non-public information.
By never recommending or suggesting that anyone else trade
in securities based on material, nonpublic information of
Microsoft or acquired through our employment, even if we are
not sharing the information itself.MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 39
KEEP ACCURATE
RECORDS & TRANSACTIONS
Our records are clear, accurate,
and complete.
Investors rely on accurate and
easily comprehensible
information to understand our
financial results and where we
are headed as a company, and
to have confidence in that
direction.
Keeping accurate records is
critical to maintaining investors’
trust, making good business
decisions, and meeting our
regulatory obligations as a
public company.<How we keep accurate records and transactions>
We honestly and accurately We are transparent about our
record and report financial commitments to our partners
transactions and business and customers, and our written
information, following applicable contracts reflect the actual
laws, regulations, and accounting economics of the deal.
practices
We don’t make side agreements or When we retain and dispose of
other “off-the-book” arrangements documents, we follow established
corporate retention requirements
that meet our legal obligations and
long-term business needs.
We execute financial transactions The CEO, CFO, Corporate
only with appropriate authorization Controller, and other employees
and record them in compliance with in the finance organization
Microsoft’s accounting practices. comply with the Finance Code
of Professional Conduct.
We use standard agreements and
contracting processes or get
approval for custom terms.
Learn more by visiting the links below
Finance Code of Custom and Side Document Retention
Professional Conduct Agreements Policy Policy
(internal only) (internal only) (internal only)
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 40Our public statements and
COMMUNICATE
communications are honest and not
ACCURATELY
misleading.
TO THE PUBLIC
What we say and how we
say it matters. We will win and preserve
the trust of our investors and the public
only if they know they can rely on what
we tell them.
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 41<How we communicate accurately to the public>
We make full, We listen carefully to We do not speak on
accurate, and timely feedback and behalf of the
financial disclosures questions from company unless
in reports and investors and other authorized to do so;
documents we stakeholders. we direct analyst and
submit to the US media inquiries to
Securities and Investor Relations or
Exchange Public Relations.
Commission and in
other public
statements. If we endorse our
products and services
on social media, we
make our company
affiliation clear and
Our advertising and
state our honest
promotional material
opinion or belief
We make sure that are accurate and free
about the endorsed
any communications from false claims.
product or service.
about our products
and services are
honest and accurate.
Learn more by visiting the links below
Financial Information Disclosure Policy
(internal only)
Public Advocacy Policy
(internal only)
Social Media Guidelines
(internal only)
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 42SAFEGUARD
MICROSOFT’S RESOURCES
We are responsible stewards of Microsoft’s resources. We use company resources and
money to do our jobs every day. These resources belong to Microsoft; we owe it to
our investors to use them responsibly and in ways that preserve trust and add value.
<How we safeguard Microsoft’s resources>
By understanding that business- By spending Microsoft’s funds wisely
related data is Microsoft’s property, and guarding against waste and
and that it may be accessed, abuse.
preserved, and reviewed in
accordance with our policies and
applicable laws.
By exercising good judgment when
using company provided technology
resources and using them for
personal reasons in accordance with
By using our corporate accounts
company policy and only if it does
and services, not personal
not interfere with our job
accounts or services, for business
responsibilities or harm our work
correspondence and data.
environment.
Learn more by visiting the links below
Responsible Use of Technology Policy Expense Policy
(internal only) (internal only)
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 43PROTECT CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION
AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
We protect and respect the business
value of information and ideas,
whether they belong to Microsoft or
another company.
We might lose our competitive advantage if we
disclose Microsoft’s confidential information.
We lose trust if we disclose confidential information
we learn from the companies we do business with.
Protecting information and ideas, whether our own
or those of others, is crucial to our business success
and builds our reputation as a trustworthy partner.
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 44<How we protect confidential information and IP>
By using best practices to protect By not using confidential
access to confidential information, information for non-Microsoft
and avoiding discussing it in business use and maintaining
common spaces or with confidentiality even if we stop
colleagues who don’t need to working for Microsoft.
know it.
By preserving Microsoft’s own By respecting the confidentiality
intellectual property rights and intellectual property rights of
through copyrights, trademarks, others and not using others’
and other forms of intellectual confidential information without
property that protect the value of authorization.
our innovation.
Learn more by visiting the links below
By not using or copying third-
party copyrighted materials, like Confidential Information
Policy(internal only)
software, graphics, videos, and
music, without a license or
permission from CELA.
Copyright Policy
(internal only)
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 45Trust
WITH OUR REPRESENTATIVES
Use Trustworthy Representatives 47
Treat Gifts, Hospitality& TravelResponsibly 49
Choose Suppliers with Integrity 51
Whenmakingdecisions,askyourself:
will this strengthen our long-term working
relationship with our representatives and
customers?
Weholdourselvestohighethicalstandards,and
we expect our representatives, who are the
partners, vendors, consultants, and other
companies who work on our behalf,tomeet the
standardswesetforourselves.
Weearntrustwithourrepresentatives
whenwereturnvaluetothemand
don’taskthemtodoanythingwe
wouldnotdoourselves.
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 46USE
TRUSTWORTHY
REPRESENTATIVES
We strive to use honest, ethical
representatives who commit to
doing business ethically when
working on our behalf. Our
business relies on a large network of
representatives—such as partners,
vendors, and consultants—for
success.
Their actions reflect on our
company’s reputation as much as
our own. When our representatives
do business with integrity, we retain
and strengthen the trust we’ve
established with our customers and
the public.
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 47<How we use trustworthy representatives>
By understanding our representatives’ qualifications and
reputation before we engage them to work on our behalf.
By understanding the reasons for including a particular
representative in a deal or transaction, and only do so where
it’s appropriate.
By cultivating trust with our representatives and never
asking or suggesting that they do things that are not
allowed under the law or our policies.
By not pressuring partners or resellers to place orders for
products or services they do not want or need, and by not
retaliating against them if they refuse to do so.
By reporting signs that a representative could be engaging in
corrupt or unethical behavior while representing Microsoft.
Learn more by visiting the links below
Trustworthy Representative Policy Ethical Sales Policy
(internal only) (internal only)
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 48TREAT GIFTS,
HOSPITALITY, AND TRAVEL
RESPONSIBLY
We strive to demonstrate sound judgment and moderation
when exchanging business courtesies.
Giving and receiving gifts, hospitality, and travel can build strong
working relationships and goodwill between Microsoft and those
we do business with.
But gifts, meals, or trips that are extravagant or lack transparency
or a legitimate purpose may be viewed as bribes or as simply
inappropriate. These things erode trust and harm our business.
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 49<How we treat gifts, hospitality,
& travel responsibly>
By developing positive relationships free of corruption and
commercial bribery.
When offering or accepting gifts, hospitality, or travel, by making
sure they are reasonable, appropriate, and have a legitimate
business purpose.
By not soliciting gifts, hospitality, or travel from third parties, or
making them feel obligated to provide something in order to do
business with us.
By not asking a representative, like a partner or supplier, to give
gifts, hospitality, or travel on our behalf.
By not giving or accepting cash.
Learn more by visiting the links below
Giving Gifts, Hospitality, and Travel to Accepting Gifts, Hospitality,
Commercial Recipients Policy(internal only) and Travel Policy(internal only)
Giving Gifts, Hospitality, and Travel to
Government Officials Policy(internal only)
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 50CHOOSE SUPPLIERS
WITH INTEGRITY
We rely on our supplier relationships
for our success. To achieve our mission,
we need suppliers that are as
committed as we are to building trust
with our customers, that will do great
work, and that will follow the law.
<How we choose suppliers with integrity>
By selecting the best suppliers for the job, and by
carefully considering their proven track record,
reputation for integrity, and other merits—not based
on favoritism.
By working to eliminate child labor, human
trafficking, and other labor abuses in our supply
chain.
Learn more by visiting the links below
Supplier Contracting Policy
(internal only)
Procurement Policy
(internal only)
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 51UPHOLDING OUR
EMPLOYEES’ RESPONSIBILITIES
Employees are expected to uphold this Trust Code, Microsoft policies, and
the law. This means you must:
Read, understand, and comply with Speak up when we see possible
this Trust Code, and the policies, violations of the Trust Code, Microsoft
laws, and regulations that apply to policies, and legal and regulatory
your job. requirements.
Be truthful and cooperate fully in Complete training on the
any internal investigations. Do not Trust Code, and attest that you
conceal or destroy information. understand and commit to comply
with the Trust Code. Failing to read or
attest to the Trust Code does not
excuse you from these responsibilities.
MICROSOFT TRUST CODE PAGE 52Microsoft’s Standards of Business Conduct and its Compliance and Ethics Program are endorsed by
and have the full support of Microsoft’s Board of Directors. The Board of Directors and management
are responsible for overseeing the Compliance and Ethics Program and compliance with these
Standards. These Standards apply to Microsoft, its Board of Directors, and all employees, directors,
and executive officers of Microsoft.
When we refer to “Microsoft” we mean Microsoft Corporation and all its subsidiaries and affiliates in
which it directly or indirectly owns more than 50% of the voting controls. References to “employees”
include the Board of Directors, employees, directors, and executive officers of Microsoft.
Only the Board of Directors may waive a provision of these Standards for a director or executive
officer. Any waiver that is granted to a director or executive officer will be publicly disclosed as
required by NASDAQ listing requirements and applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
These Standards are important to us. Violation of these Standards may result in disciplinary action, up
to and including termination of employment. ​Employees are expected to always exercise common
sense and good judgment and to act responsibly, irrespective of the existence of a policy that
prohibits specific behavior.
Speak up when something is not right so that we can address the problem.
Report an Integrity Concern
MICROSOFT’S STANDARDS OF BUSINESS CONDUCT
©Microsoft 2023