CODE OF ETHICS
For the principal executive officers and the senior financial officers
1 Purpose
The purpose of this Code of Ethics (the “Code”) is to reinforce ethical behavior and promote
high standards of corporate governance. This Code complements Nokia’s Code of Conduct,
Nokia Insider Policy and other guidelines and policies applicable at Nokia.
2 Applicability
The Code applies to Nokia’s President and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer,
Deputy Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Controller (the “Officers”).
3 Good corporate practices
3.1 Honest and ethical conduct
The Officers shall act honestly and ethically in all their business activities in their respective
roles. They shall comply with and promote compliance with the highest standards of
ethical conduct, including the principles set out in Nokia’s Code of Conduct, in all their
business activities at Nokia.
3.2 Conflicts of interest
Situations involving an actual or apparent conflict of interest between personal and
professional relationships of the Officers with Nokia, or any doubt thereof, shall be
handled in an ethical way. An Officer shall not participate in consideration of a matter in
which he/she has a conflict of interest or even a perceived conflict of interest between
his/her personal and professional relationships with respect to Nokia.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Officers shall comply with the provisions on conflicts of
interest included in various Nokia guidelines and policies (e.g., Nokia Insider Policy, Conflict
of Interest Policy and external board membership related standard operating procedures).
Page 1 of 4 © Nokia 2023
6 February 20233.3 Fair and timely disclosure
The Officers shall take all measures generally required from a prudent principal executive
officer or senior financial officer, including measures in accordance with Nokia’s disclosure
controls and procedures, to promote full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable
disclosure in reports and documents filed with or submitted to financial and regulatory
authorities or stock exchanges by Nokia.
3.4 Compliance with laws and regulations
The Officers shall comply in all their business activities in their respective roles with all
applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations of Finland and other applicable
jurisdictions, as well as the rules of stock exchanges on which Nokia shares are listed,
including the New York Stock Exchange. These obligations include cooperating,
appropriately, with governmental investigations of Nokia’s business and operations.
4 Accountability
4.1 Clearances
Nokia regards adherence to this Code as well as accountability for such adherence as
important.
The Chief Compliance Officer may, upon request, advise the Officers whether a particular
situation or behavior is in compliance with this Code or not, and give a clearance for a
situation or behavior that is obviously and evidently compliant. The determination whether
a conflict of interest exists or not, shall be made by the Chief Compliance Officer or, upon
the request of the Officer or the Chief Compliance Officer, by the Chair of the Audit
Committee.
4.2 Reporting of illegal or unethical behavior
Any suspected failures to adhere to, and suspected violations of this Code by any of the
Officers, shall be reported to the Chief Compliance Officer or to the Chair of the Audit
Committee. Except for such matters that are beyond question frivolous, each such matter
shall be reviewed and considered by the Audit Committee. The matter shall be prepared
for such consideration by the Chief Compliance Officer or another officer as instructed by
the Audit Committee.
Page 2 of 4 © Nokia 2023
6 February 20234.3 Violations
The Audit Committee shall consider and determine if a violation of this Code has occurred,
and possible consequences, if any, for such violation. The consequences may vary from a
written reprimand to a recommendation to the corporate body entitled to discharge the
Officer in question to discharge him/her from his/her duties, and may include other
measures that the Audit Committee deems appropriate, depending on the circumstances
of the case.
4.4 Recording
The Chief Compliance Officer shall keep records of all clearances given by him/her or the
Vice Chair of the Board, as well as of all reports made under this Code on suspected
failures by the Officers to adhere to the Code or suspected violations thereof. In addition,
records shall be kept on all decisions taken by the Audit Committee in respect of matters
considered under this Code.
5 Assignments
The Audit Committee may authorize its Chair to resolve a specific matter, or a specific category
of matters, under this Code.
Any reference to the Chief Compliance Officer in this Code is equally applicable to his/her
deputy.
6 Waivers
Any waiver of this Code may be made only by the Audit Committee and must be disclosed as set
forth below.
7 Disclosure
This Code will be published on Nokia’s website. Amendments to, and waivers of, this Code will be
disclosed in a similar way.
Page 3 of 4 © Nokia 2023
6 February 20238 Approval and amendments
This Code is approved, and may be amended, by the Board of Directors of Nokia.
Page 4 of 4 © Nokia 2023
6 February 2023