Code of
ConductBusiness is all about trust.
Trust is built on integrity.
Your decisions matter.
2 Nokia Code of ConductTable of contents
Letter from the President and CEO .........................................................................4 This Code of Conduct has 14 compliance
Purpose and scope ....................................................................................................5 policies, detailed below. Each of these
policies is supplemented by a detailed
The four principles of our Code of Conduct ...........................................................6
internal policy, a standard operating
Your responsibilities .................................................................................................7
procedure (SOP), guidelines, or a
The circle of responsibility .......................................................................................8
process document.
The Nokia ethical decision-making model .............................................................9
Employees should read these policies
in conjunction with all such internal
Nokia’s compliance policies .................................................................................11
documents and processes.
We do business the right way ..............................................................................12
Conflict of interest ...............................................................................................12
Dealing with government officials .......................................................................14
Fair competition ....................................................................................................16
Improper payments ..............................................................................................18
Trade compliance .................................................................................................20
Working with third parties ...................................................................................22
We respect our people and community ..............................................................24
Environment ..........................................................................................................24
Fair employment .................................................................................................26
Health, safety and labor conditions ...................................................................28
Human rights .......................................................................................................30
Privacy ..................................................................................................................32
We safeguard our assets .....................................................................................34
Controllership .......................................................................................................34
Intellectual property and confidential information ...........................................36
Insider trading ......................................................................................................38
Speaking up ............................................................................................................40
Addressing concerns ............................................................................................41
Ombuds Program .................................................................................................42
3Letter from the
President and CEO
The past few years have been extraordinary. By following the principles of the Code, we will
succeed collectively, as a company and as individual
Climate change, trade disputes and a global
employees. And we will build trust with customers,
pandemic have posed serious challenges to
suppliers, communities, and each other.
businesses of all types.
Naturally, the Code cannot provide an answer to every
Faced by these circumstances, the best businesses
question. In these cases, please stop and think, ask
draw strength from a strong and clear set of values:
the opinion of colleagues, and act in accordance with
a worldview that gives all employees a framework in
Nokia’s values.
which to approach new and unusual situations.
And most important of all, always speak up when
Nokia’s Code of Conduct is an excellent example.
something doesn’t seem right.
The Code states our values, clearly and concisely.
In doing so, you actively contribute to the success
It explains why they are important and translates
of this great, historic and trusted company.
them into standards, policies and rules that all
Nokia employees are expected to follow. After all, business is all about trust. Trust is built on
integrity. Your decisions matter.
In other words, the Code unites all of us, in diverse
locations and from diverse cultures, behind a
common vision.
The Code has been written in a practical style. Pekka Lundmark
It identifies specific risks and challenges that President and CEO
employees of international businesses might face.
It includes examples. And importantly, it is clear
about how we should address those risks, and
where to go for help.
4 Nokia Code of ConductPurpose and scope
Purpose The Code of Conduct applies to directors, officers,
and employees of Nokia, as well as employees of
This Code of Conduct sets out essential rules and
Nokia’s wholly owned affiliates and subsidiaries.
provides guidance to ensure that all of us, including
The Code also applies to directors, officers, and
everyone acting on behalf of Nokia, act with
employees of other business entities (such as joint
unyielding integrity, consistent with the numerous
ventures) in which Nokia owns a majority of the
laws, regulations, and policies that govern us.
shares or exercises effective control.
Our entire business is built on trust; in fact, our
Nokia will also make good faith efforts to implement
stakeholders will not work with us without it.
the Code, or ensure the adoption of a similar set of
Our Code of Conduct expresses our personal
policies, in operating entities in which Nokia actively
commitment to earning this trust every day, in
participates but does not own a majority of shares
each community and in all our business activities.
or exercise effective control. Likewise, Nokia will
It reflects our values through clear and simple
use its best efforts to have third parties such as
direction for all our employees and business
suppliers, representatives, and other contractors
partners and reinforces our Nokia essentials of
commit to the same values and principles as those
being open, fearless and empowered.
enshrined in the Nokia Code of Conduct. All of Nokia’s
third parties are bound by our Third-Party Code of
Scope and applicability
Conduct, which can be found at https://www.nokia.
com/en_int/investors/corporate-governance/code-
The Code of Conduct outlines standards for
of-conduct.
ethical behavior by Nokia employees and business
partners. It sets out our four key principles and 14
key risk areas, each of which are explained in detail.
It explains how compliance is a commitment and a
responsibility shared by all of us.
5The four principles of
our Code of Conduct
We follow the laws of the countries We personally set the example for We promote a culture of integrity We hold each other accountable to
where we do business and adhere to each other and our stakeholders by through mutual respect, trust in each this Code, and if we become aware
Nokia’s policies and procedures. being honest and fair. other and high standards of ethics in of potential violations, we promptly
all our business dealings. report them.
6 Nokia Code of ConductYour responsibilities
The Code of Conduct sets high In all cases, your obligations Role and responsibility Leaders at every level must,
standards of integrity for Nokia
under the Code include: of Nokia leaders and at a minimum:
employees and business partners.
It reflects our commitment to acting • Reading, understanding, and line managers • Know and anticipate business
in an ethical and compliant manner following the Code of Conduct and compliance risk areas that may
Nokia’s leaders – including all
in all our business activities. its policies and seeking guidance affect team operations and take
line managers – have additional
when needed; proactive steps to mitigate such
Although everyone is expected to responsibilities when it comes to
risks; set goals to track compliance;
know and understand the Code, it • Promptly raising any and all ethics and compliance. They are
and ensure their team is trained to
does not answer every question or compliance concerns through compliance stewards for their
deal with the risk areas;
anticipate every difficult situation one of the many channels provided organizations and are responsible not
you might encounter. It sets out a by Nokia; only for achieving business results but • Communicate regularly with their
model to help you make the right also for driving a culture of integrity team about the importance of
• Avoiding any practices that may
decisions – decisions that could have throughout their organizations. compliance, and demonstrate
lead to unlawful conduct, an
a long-lasting impact on you and the Leaders “own” compliance within visibly and actively – through words
appearance of impropriety, or harm
company. Know that you are never their organizations and are fully and behavior – their personal
to Nokia’s reputation;
expected to make tough decisions accountable for compliance failures commitment to the Nokia Code of
alone. There are ample resources and • Fully supporting anyone who raises that result from their failure to instill Conduct and its policies;
channels that are available to you to a compliance concern and never and advance this culture in their
• Emphasize the value of reporting
ask questions and receive guidance. retaliating in any way against teams. Leaders are also expected to
potential compliance concerns
anyone who does raise a question drive an open reporting environment
promptly and foster an environment
or concern; and encourage a “speak-up” culture.
of open reporting where employees
• Cooperating fully in all compliance feel comfortable raising concerns
investigations. without fear of retaliation;
• Hire and promote only those people
who have high standards of integrity
and reward and recognize employees
who go above and beyond with
respect to compliance.
7The circle of responsibility
At Nokia, compliance is a shared responsibility. Leaders
We all have a role to play in upholding our ethical
values and policies. • Role models for integrity
• Are engaged & accountable
Leaders
• Champion ethics & compliance
It is up to leaders, at all levels and parts of the
company, to be engaged and accountable, and to
Employees
actively promote a culture of integrity.
Employees • L earn, understand & Circle of
follow policies and laws
It is up to every employee, to know and understand • Embrace Nokia’s values
the policies and rules, and to ask questions and raise responsibility
• S peak up & ask
concerns whenever something doesn’t seem right.
questions
Legal and compliance
It is the role of Legal & Compliance to educate and
empower employees, to establish clear guidelines,
and to have effective procedures in place to address
the complex and varied risks inherent in today’s
business environment.
Legal and Compliance
• Inform, train & guide
• Empower ethical decision-making
• I mplement robust compliance
processes
88 NNookkiiaa CCooddee ooff CCoonndduuccttThe Nokia ethical
decision-making model
When faced with a potential ethics or compliance decision, consider these four questions before taking action:
Do you have enough Does it conform with
information? Nokia’s values and policies?
Consider consulting with a manager, If the proposed decision or action is
Legal and Compliance, or others not consistent with Nokia’s values, our
who may be knowledgeable about Code of Conduct, and related policies,
the relevant subject and can provide reassess your decision. If it does not
YES
the information you need to make feel right, it is probably in conflict
a proper decision about a matter with our values and our expectations
touching upon ethics and compliance. Please proceed. of employees to always uphold
those values.
Reach out for
guidance when
Is the decision or action legal? needed. Will it look appropriate if
it appears in the news?
If the proposed decision or action
violates applicable laws and
Even actions that are lawful may be
regulations, stop.
improper or may appear to others as
such and can tarnish our name and
We comply with applicable laws
reputation when seen on the news
wherever we do business.
or spread over the internet.
Find out more about ethics and integrity at Nokia: Conducting our Business with Integrity1 For our third parties: Third-Party Code of Conduct2
1 https://www.nokia.com/about-us/sustainability/conducting-our-business-with-integrity/ 2 https://www.nokia.com/en_int/investors/corporate-governance/code-of-conduct
910 Nokia Code of ConductNokia’s compliance policies
11Conflict of
interest
Policy overview
We act in the best interests of Nokia and
use Nokia information, property and
resources primarily for Nokia’s benefit
and to support Nokia’s business needs.
Nokia employees must fully and promptly
disclose all personal interests that might
reasonably be perceived as affecting
our judgment to perform our roles at
Nokia or that may create an appearance
of impropriety.
We avoid any activity at work or outside
of work that might interfere with our
obligations to Nokia or that could hurt
the good reputation of Nokia.
12 Nokia Code of ConductWe do business the right way Conflict of interest
What to watch out for What you need to know Consider this scenario:
• Financial or other interests and positions in • A conflict of interest exists where you as an
companies that you could use to influence employee have a personal interest that can
Nokia’s current or future business regarding influence or interfere with your obligations to
those companies and their customers, Nokia. A conflict can be actual, potential, or
consultants, or suppliers. perceived.
My uncle is a supervisor at one of Nokia’s
• Decisions where the potentially affected parties • The mere appearance of a conflict can have major suppliers. My position at Nokia
have close personal or family relationships with negative effects, including damage to reputation, provides me with discretion to award
you, or where you or your family might stand to loss of trust, and damage to morale. It is business to this supplier or its competitors,
benefit in a personal capacity. important to consider how your actions might although others in my group provide
appear and to avoid the perception of a conflict oversight for such procurement activities.
• Recruiting, hiring, or supervising family members
of interest. Is this a conflict of interest?
or close personal friends, or promoting someone
with whom you have such a relationship. • Having a conflict of interest, in and of itself, may
not constitute wrongdoing. A conflict of interest
• Performing outside work during Nokia business
may exist even without improper conduct, but it
hours or using Nokia’s resources, intellectual
must be promptly disclosed and properly managed.
property, or confidential information for non-
A conflict of interest that is not promptly and fully
Nokia-related work.
disclosed and/or properly managed can become
• Serving as an officer or director of a charitable problematic and may cause others to question your
or civic organization that may obtain, or seek to integrity and loyalty to Nokia.
obtain, funding or support from Nokia.
Yes. You should disclose this relationship
to your manager. You and your line
manager should discuss how to handle
the matter, presumably by taking steps
to ensure that you are not involved in
procurement decisions involving this
supplier or its competitors.
13Dealing with
government
Policy overview
officials Nokia engages with international bodies,
governments, and government officials
at multiple levels and in a variety of
ways, including:
• As a business providing goods and
services;
• As a concerned corporate citizen
petitioning to protect our interests;
• As a taxpayer;
• As a private sector participant providing
jobs and economic opportunities in
many countries around the world.
When interacting with government officials,
we follow high ethical standards and act
in a transparent manner. We are honest,
truthful, and accurate, and we follow
Nokia’s policies and procedures and any
applicable laws. Special requirements
apply to our interactions with government
customers and state-owned enterprises,
including, for example, rules relating to
procurement, lobbying, entertainment,
hospitality, disclosure, and record-keeping.
14 Nokia Code of ConductWe do business the right way Dealing with government officials
What to watch out for What you need to know Consider this scenario:
• Government officials requesting information from • “Government Official” refers to any individual
Nokia: Verify that the officials have a right to such who holds a political office, as well as any
information and that Nokia has a right to deliver individual who is an employee, representative,
such information. When applicable, follow the agent, officer, or director of any government
relevant procedure or seek guidance from Legal body or agency, (at any level of government for Nokia is hoping to increase its market share
and Compliance. example, local, state, provincial, federal,) or of an in a country where the telecommunications
international organization, such as the World Bank. sector is heavily regulated. You have been
• Public procurement rules: Do not deviate from
A Government Official also includes any employee, asked to arrange an overseas trip for
a government’s public procurement or tender
representative, agent, officer, or director of a several important customers as well as
process, even when a government official may
“state-owned enterprise” (SOE), meaning any senior members of the regulatory agency
indicate that such a deviation is acceptable
company that is majority owned by a government to showcase Nokia’s network equipment.
or condoned.
entity, or otherwise controlled or managed by a Is this acceptable?
• Recruiting a government official or member of the government entity.
official’s family for employment at Nokia while the
• Nokia’s policy does not permit participating
official is in a position to influence Nokia’s business
in the political or electoral process through
with the government may lead to perception of
direct donations to political groups, but Nokia
conflict of interest and may violate applicable
does protect its interests through lawful and
laws and regulations regarding hiring from the
transparent advocacy with governments.
government. Probably not. The rules governing travel,
• Your personal political activity, such as support or hospitality, and entertainment may differ
• Offering gifts or hospitality to government officials
advocacy relating to laws and policies or support depending on whether a guest is
when the gifts or hospitality do not comply with
for and donations to candidates for office, may a government official or employee of
applicable law, including local rules and regulations,
be appropriate, but it must also be lawful, be a state-owned enterprise or private
as well as established Nokia thresholds and
conducted on your own time with your own company. Customer travel may be
approval requirements for corporate hospitality.
resources, and in no way involve or be perceived permitted under certain conditions for
This includes benefits offered via third parties.
to involve Nokia. private company employees, but different
Such practices may be unacceptable or illegal in
standards often apply for government
government business. • Nokia employees should contact the Nokia
officials and employees of state-owned
Government Relations team when planning
• Any activity that might be perceived as an undue enterprises. In this scenario it is mandatory
to engage with a government official for
attempt to influence the behavior or decision of to engage with the Legal and Compliance
advocacy purposes.
a governmental official. team to seek guidance.
.
15Fair competition
Policy overview
Nokia competes fiercely but fairly.
In most countries there are competition
(or antitrust) laws that regulate the
activities of companies in the marketplace
to ensure fair competition for the benefit of
consumers and other market participants.
These laws prohibit anti-competitive
agreements or understandings between
companies. They also restrict the behavior
of dominant companies and require
advance review or permission
for mergers, acquisitions, or other
commercial arrangements that meet
certain thresholds.
Compliance with competition laws and
fair competition is part of Nokia’s way of
doing business and is important to our
business strategy.
16 Nokia Code of ConductWe do business the right way Fair competition
What to watch out for What you need to know Consider this scenario:
• Even informal discussions or sensitive information • You are responsible for knowing and understanding
exchanges can give rise to competition issues. applicable competition rules and principles. Consult
An agreement or arrangement can be illegal even with Legal and Compliance any time you have a
if it does not take the form of a formal written question or need guidance.
contract. A mere informal understanding between
• It is illegal to share or exchange with competitors
competitors can be regarded as anti-competitive.
competitively sensitive information such as cost and
I just received some confidential pricing
• Take care with language in all documentation pricing information or other commercial conditions,
information from a competitor. I did not
and communications, including emails and future strategies, plans, or product roadmaps, as
ask for it, but this kind of information
instant messages, to avoid expressions being well as tender offers or bids.
could be useful to me. What should I do?
misinterpreted. For example, avoid speculating
• It is illegal to agree or align competitive behavior in
whether an activity is legal or illegal, do not
the market with Nokia competitors, such as setting
describe Nokia as being dominant, and avoid
prices or agreeing on conditions of tender offers or
statements giving misleading impressions.
bids and dividing or allocating markets, geographic
• For any meetings with competitors, create an territories, customers, or sources of supply.
agenda and take care that discussions do not stray
• Cooperation with competitors in the form of
into sharing competitively sensitive information.
consortia, joint bidding or forming a joint venture, or
• Leave any call or meeting if you are concerned other joint operations requires consultation with our
that competitively sensitive information is being Legal and Compliance team.
discussed, making sure that your exit is noted in
• Entering into exclusive arrangements with partners, If you receive any competitively sensitive
the record.
restricting resellers’ ability to set the resale price information from a competitor, either
of products, or imposing restrictions concerning directly or indirectly (for example through a
exclusive territories or customers all require trade association), refrain from circulating or
consultation with our Legal and Compliance team. using it, and consult Legal and Compliance.
You should also respond to the sender
.
of the information that you did not seek
the information and emphasize Nokia’s
commitment to competition law compliance.
17Improper
payments
Policy overview
Nokia wins its business on merit. We
will not tolerate improper or corrupt
payments, including bribes or kickbacks,
made directly or indirectly to or from a
customer, government official, or third
party, including:
• Improper gifts;
• Entertainment, gratuities, favors,
donations;
• Any other inappropriate transfer
of value.
Facilitation payments (sometimes
referred to as “grease payments”) are
likewise prohibited. We will engage only
reputable third parties who share our
commitment to integrity.
Nokia is committed to complying with
all applicable financial record-keeping
and reporting requirements and all
other applicable anti-money laundering
laws and regulations, as well as laws
and regulations applicable to terrorist
financing and facilitation of tax evasion.
Nokia conducts business only with
customers involved in legitimate business
activities with funds derived from
legitimate sources.
18 Nokia Code of ConductWe do business the right way Improper payments
What to watch out for What you need to know Consider this scenario:
• Unusual, excessive, and out of the ordinary • An improper payment involves any transfer of
requests for travel, lodging, hospitality, or any value (not only cash, but also any other benefit,
other benefit for government officials, customers, hospitality, or thing of value) that is unlawful under
or their family members or friends. applicable law or not permitted by the recipient’s
I am responsible for an important customer
rules or Nokia’s policies and procedures.
• Requests for donations to charities or account. The customer has asked me to
organizations that may be affiliated with a • Exercise prudence and caution when interacting push through a new purchase order that
government official or a customer. with government officials, which can include includes a “one-off” fee to be paid to a
employees of a customer that is a state-owned subcontractor selected by the customer
• Service providers that suggest unusually “fast”
or controlled enterprise. for part of the project implementation.
clearance of goods through customs, visas or
I am not sure what the fee represents,
work permits through immigration, or issuance • Never give – or authorize a third party to give
and upon asking the customer, I do not
of government permits. – a gratuity to a government official to expedite a
get a clear response. What do I do?
service, such as customs or immigration clearances,
• Requests to record a transaction inaccurately or
permits, or issuance of licenses or approvals.
incompletely or to expedite approval or payment
in a way that might compromise financial controls. • Improper payments can expose you and Nokia to
criminal prosecution. Always seek advice if you are
• Receipt and approval of false or inflated invoices
uncertain about the legitimacy of any payments or
from a supplier. Payment of such invoices can be
the purpose thereof.
used to fund kickback schemes.
There is a risk here that the fee is a disguised
kickback or other improper payment. Any
requests for payments that look unusual
and cannot be tied back to legitimate goods
or services should be challenged; speak to
someone like your line manager, your local
Ombuds leader, or the Legal and Compliance
team if you have concerns.
19Trade
compliance
Policy overview
The provision of items, including but
not limited to hardware, software,
documentation, source code, technical
data, or other technology around the
world, is regulated by national and
international trade and sanctions laws
that may impact Nokia’s operations in
multiple ways.
The physical or electronic transmission
(in paper format, by email, or through
the web) of items across borders, or
even the written or oral exchange of
information among citizens of different
nations who are all co-located in one
country, are in scope of these laws and
may be strictly regulated.
Nokia is committed to compliance
with all applicable trade and sanctions
laws and regulations that impact its
operations, including export control and
customs compliance. We are committed
to preparing, executing and reporting
international business accurately and
transparently to trade authorities.
20 Nokia Code of ConductWe do business the right way Trade compliance
What to watch out for What you need to know Consider this scenario:
• Manual shipments (e.g., outside of SAP), items • Consider and apply the applicable trade rules when
in luggage carried on business trips, and any arranging any cross-border transactions, including
controlled technology transmitted by email, server financial transactions, technology transfers, A Nokia customer in a sanctioned country
access, or other means. transactions that are free of charge, returns, or has an urgent need for certain replacement
hand-carried goods. parts. Shipment directly to the customer
• Payments to a customs broker that exceed the
from a Nokia facility would result in delays
invoice or are for suspicious or unidentified • If you initiate exports or imports – even
while we wait for government authorities
services; any inaccurate description, classification, occasionally – you must follow the applicable laws
to approve the shipment. Someone
or valuation of goods or data on invoices, customs of the respective countries. All imports must be
suggests that we ship the materials to a
forms, and other related documentation. declared accurately with correct documentation
third party in a country that does not have
and value. The right country of origin is required
• Companies or persons we think might attempt sanctions on the customer’s country, so
for import declaration and taxation. Import and
to evade applicable trade laws to a prohibited that the third party can ship the parts on to
export documentation must be carefully archived
destination via trans-shipments. the customer without any delay. Is it okay
for audit purposes.
to follow this suggestion?
• Unclear, vague, or incomplete answers from
• Exports can take many forms, including the
customers or third parties about the end use/end
physical transfer of goods and the disclosure
user, delivery dates, and locations.
of information in paper format, via electronic
• Import and export declarations, documentation, means, or aurally or verbally through technology
and product markings and packaging that are exchanges (e.g. by email or through online
unclear or inaccurate. Failure to adhere to collaboration sites; in meetings, workshops, and
applicable laws, regulations, and policies for all product demonstrations; or during laboratory
imports and exports, including temporary exports visits, conferences, etc.).
No. The trans-shipment of goods to
such as for repairs or for marketing events.
• Carrying electronic devices that possibly contain circumvent laws governing international
controlled information across borders could be trade is prohibited. You should speak to
considered an export; this includes information held Nokia Global Trade Management (GTM)
on laptops and other personal electronic devices. to fully understand the export control
regulations and follow them accordingly.
• Many countries impose restrictions on the
transfer of certain technologies and data. Some
countries completely forbid business with certain
other countries. Export restrictions and sanctions
may apply.
211
Working with
third parties
Policy overview
Third parties include any person,
organization, or company with which
Nokia contracts, including suppliers and
commercial third parties.
Nokia seeks productive, ethical, and
transparent relationships with its third
parties. We expect all our third parties
to be qualified according to Nokia
standards, to follow and exceed all
applicable laws and regulations, and to
share the values expressed in our Code
of Conduct.
Our third parties are expected to comply
with the requirements of the Nokia
Third-Party Code of Conduct3. Giving
gifts or hospitality to our third parties, or
accepting gifts or hospitality from them,
is done only in compliance with applicable
laws, regulations, and Nokia policies for
corporate hospitality.
3 https://www.nokia.com/about-us/investors/corporate-
governance/code-of-conduct/
22 Nokia Code of ConductWe do business the right way Working with third parties
What to watch out for What you need to know Consider this scenario:
• Being pressured by a customer or counter-party • Be familiar with purchasing policies, compliance
to select a specific third party in connection with screening, and onboarding requirements to ensure
a business transaction. that we engage only third parties that will comply
You are about to close a substantial deal
with applicable laws and policies, that share our
• Third parties offering money or anything of with an important customer. The deal
commitment to ethical business practices, and that
value in order to be selected to work with Nokia requires certain local services where
will not tarnish Nokia’s brand or reputation.
or offering unusual deviations from lawful and Nokia will be required to hire one or
ordinary business practices in order to be selected • Immediately raise a concern if you are asked to more local vendors. The customer is
(e.g. hiring your relative). select or deal with a specific third party and/or pressuring you to hire an untested third-
deviate from the approved third-party selection party contractor to oversee the local
• Third parties that refuse to acknowledge and
and contracting process. services, claiming it has the necessary
commit to following Nokia values and principles,
“connections” to get the work done
the Code of Conduct and/or Nokia’s Third-Party • Nokia will terminate business relationships with
quickly. It is unclear who the actual
Code of Conduct or failing to collaborate on third parties who engage in questionable or
owners of the firm are. Is it safe for you
closing any related audit findings. unlawful business practices.
to hire this contractor?
• Third parties that are owned or controlled by • Know and understand Nokia’s policies on gifts,
the government or by a government official or entertainment, and hospitality. Report attempts
close family member, or with otherwise opaque by third parties to provide anything of value
ownership structures, or a supplier that claims that exceeds Nokia thresholds and approval
it “has connections” or can exercise improper requirements within the Corporate Hospitality
influence with the government or with a customer. and Gifts Standard Operating Procedure.
Proceed with caution and engage with
• Conflicts of interest in conducting business with the Legal and Compliance team. There
third parties; for example, when someone in your are several red flags indicating that Nokia
family or anyone else with whom you have a close ought not to do business with this third
personal relationship has a substantial role in, or party. These include the fact that the
relationship with, a certain third party. contractor lacks a proven track record,
has opaque ownership, and may use its
influence or connections to cut corners or
act contrary to laws or Nokia values.
23Environment
Policy overview
Nokia’s longstanding commitment to
the protection of the environment and
management of environmental issues
actively, openly, and ethically meets
and often exceeds legal and regulatory
requirements.
Nokia continuously seeks to prevent
pollution and to reduce the environmental
impacts of its products and services during
design, procurement, manufacturing, use,
and end-of-life.
We also expect our business partners
and suppliers to share our commitment
to the environment.
24 Nokia Code of ConductWe respect our people and community Environment
What to watch out for What you need to know Consider this scenario:
• Failing to promptly address environmental • Nokia meets or exceeds the legal requirements
complaints or concerns from employees, suppliers, for protecting the environment. Nokia expects
customers, or other third parties. its employees, suppliers, contractors, and other
business partners to follow the same or equivalent
• Suppliers or contractors that do not engage in
standards, placing a high priority on protecting I am part of a research and development
sound or sustainable environmental practices.
the environment. team that is finalizing a new product. I am
• Ignoring applicable environmental regulations or concerned that the environmental impact
• By working continuously to reduce the
company guidelines. of the product is being downplayed or
environmental impacts of Nokia products
overlooked; there are certain aspects
• Missing opportunities to decrease the throughout their life cycles – including design,
of the product design that could have a
environmental impact of our products and procurement, manufacturing, use, and end-of-
negative environmental impact. Should I
services by reducing waste, increasing energy or life – Nokia enables customers and users to reduce
do anything?
material efficiency, or preventing pollution. their environmental footprints.
• Obtaining, maintaining, renewing, and extending • Be aware of the environmental impacts relevant
all environmental permits, licenses, or other to your work and how specific environmental
clearances (such as environmental impact requirements are met in your work function, such as
studies) on the timely basis that is necessary product requirements in research and development
to Nokia’s operations. or transportation selection in logistics.
• Take immediate action to remedy situations in Yes. Nokia is wholly committed to protecting
which incidents, audits, and feedback highlight the environment and will not compromise
areas for improvement in Nokia’s environmental on damaging our planet for profit. We will
management. only develop products that have been fully
and properly assessed for environmental
impact. The R&D team will not be permitted
to bypass correct environmental processes.
You can raise your concern with the
development project manager, your line
manager, or Legal and Compliance to ensure
that your concerns are considered, and that
this environmental aspect is not overlooked.
25Fair employment
Policy overview
Integrity and respect are integral to our
essentials of being open, fearless, and
empowered.
We respect all individuals regardless
of age, disability, gender identity,
characteristics or expression, marital or
civil partnership status, pregnancy or
parental status, race, religion or belief,
sex, sexual orientation, or any other
characteristic protected by law.
Bullying, harassment, discrimination, and
retaliation, in any form, are prohibited.
26 Nokia Code of ConductWe respect our people and community Fair employment
What to watch out for What you need to know Consider this scenario:
• Harassment, which is improper or unwanted • Nokia strives to maintain an ethical and inclusive work
conduct that may or may not be of a sexual nature environment free from any unlawful discriminatory,
or otherwise related to a protected characteristic hostile, degrading, intimidating or offensive behavior You are in a Teams video meeting when
that is intended to or does violate the dignity of everywhere we do business. you witness your manager ridiculing a
another person, or creates an intimidating, hostile, team member because of their sexual
• All our people, regardless of their role or seniority,
degrading, humiliating or offensive environment. orientation after the team member
are expected to be guided by Nokia’s essentials of
Harassment may, for example, include unwanted mentioned in passing going to dinner
being open, fearless and empowered. This means we
and inappropriate comments, jokes, or touching. with their same-sex partner the night
treat each other with respect, dignity and courtesy
Harassment can be a one-time or repeated before. The manager then posts further
and this includes all communications and other
occurrence, inside or outside of the workplace. derogatory jokes on the Teams chat. The
interactions, whether face-to-face or electronically,
team member in question reaches out
• Bullying, which may include any unwanted behavior and whether verbal or non-verbal.
to you saying how upset they are but
that is offensive, intimidating, malicious or insulting,
• Nokia provides equal opportunities to all employees that they are scared to speak up fearing
or is an abuse or misuse of power that undermines,
and all employment decisions are made without further humiliation. What should you do?
humiliates, or causes physical or emotional harm.
regard to a person’s age, disability, gender identity,
Bullying may be a one-time incident or a regular
characteristics or expression, marital or civil
pattern of behavior that occurs inside or outside the
partnership status, pregnancy or parental status,
workplace, in person or virtual, can be physical or
race (color, nationality or ethnic or national origins),
verbal, obvious or subtle, intentional or unintentional.
religion or belief, sex or sexual orientation, or any
• Abusive micro-behaviors such as comments, other characteristic protected by law. No one should
questions or behaviors that are offensive or be treated less favorably on the grounds of such
These comments and behavior are against
inappropriate and communicate a hostile, characteristics.
Nokia policy and should not be tolerated.
derogatory or negative attitude towards somebody
• Nokia expects everyone, including our officers, Act as an ally to the person, speak with the
else, whether or not intentional. Such behaviors
employees, customers, suppliers and business People organization, your manager, Legal
could involve conduct such as excluding people
partners, to create a psychologically safe work and Compliance, an Ombuds leader or raise
from activities, persistently interrupting colleagues,
environment which allows to challenge abusive or your concern to the Ethics Helpline. Be
taking credit for the work of others, repeatedly
discriminatory behavior. Nokia wants everyone to assured that you will not face any reprisals
disregarding the non-working time of others,
feel empowered to raise genuine concerns without for raising such a concern.
or other detrimental treatment, whether or not
fear of retaliation.
related to a protected characteristic.
• Nokia encourages everyone to be an “ally,” support
• Any decisions related to someone’s employment
inclusion, and speak up for those who are excluded.
which are not based on merit, principles of
Allyship involves actively and consistently operating
equal opportunity, or made for other legitimate
in solidarity with groups of which you are not a part,
business reasons.
including calling out discrimination when you witness it. 27Health, safety and
labor conditions
Policy overview
We are passionate about making sure
that everyone who works for, or on behalf
of, Nokia goes home safely at the end of
the day.
We earn the respect of each other,
our contractors, our partners, our
customers, and members of the public
by providing a safe, healthy, and fair
working environment.
We do this through the robust and
consistent implementation of our
internal processes – processes that
meet or exceed applicable regulatory
requirements. We also expect the same
of our contractors and suppliers.
28 Nokia Code of ConductWe respect our people and community Health, safety & labor conditions
What to watch out for What you need to know Consider this scenario:
• Situations that could be dangerous, such as a • Health and safety management is integrated into
colleague not wearing a safety belt in a taxi, our business and processes; this includes the
participating in a conference call while driving, design, production, distribution, installation, and As the project manager, I am under
or working at steep heights without the proper support of our products and systems. immense pressure from my customer to
safeguards in place. complete outstanding tasks on various
• We continuously improve our health and safety
sites. I have explained to our engineering
• Anyone who disregards our policies or legal performance through robust, consistent, and
teams how important it is that we get the
requirements or otherwise acts in a way transparent risk management, constantly seeking
work done quickly – it will largely determine
that places others at risk, such as a manager to learn and share to prevent work-related
whether we win future contracts from the
requesting someone to work when that person accidents, and implementing (where possible) new
customer. I have asked them to work very
is not fit for duty. working practices and technologies.
long hours and over weekends. Although I
• Colleagues who appear to be struggling at work or • We want everyone to have a good day at work, and expected this to be for one or two weeks,
are not coping because they feel overloaded, are to be able to achieve an optimal balance between it has now been going on for well over a
concerned about organizational change, or have high performance and a healthy, happy, and month. Is this practice OK?
pressures outside of work that are contributing fulfilling home life.
to a feeling of being overwhelmed and in need
• We take immediate action to correct situations
of support.
in which incidents, audits, and feedback identify
• Opportunities in your daily work routines that will areas for improvement, and we build sustainable,
increase the likelihood of everyone going home scalable, and repeatable solutions.
You may have acted outside of the Nokia
safely following a good day at work.
• We expect our suppliers, contractors, and other Code of Conduct, as your actions may
business partners to meet the same standards place the engineers at risk, jeopardizing
and place equally high priority on health, safety, their health, safety, and well-being. They
and labor conditions in their operations. might make mistakes because of fatigue,
exhaustion, or other factors, and those
mistakes could have serious health and
safety consequences. You should have
considered alternatives, such as negotiating
a project extension with the customer or
bringing in additional resources.
29Human rights
Policy overview
Nokia provides products and services
that expand opportunities to
communicate and contribute directly
to the exercise of such fundamental
rights as free expression, privacy, access
to information, exchange of ideas and
economic development. We recognize,
however, that technology can be misused
and as a communications technology
provider we have a responsibility to
ensure our products and services are
not misappropriated or abused.
Nokia is committed to the principles
of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights and the United Nations Guiding
Principles for Business and Human Rights,
and we expect our suppliers and business
partners to share these values.
Nokia seeks to ensure that materials
used in our products come from socially
responsible sources. We do not tolerate,
contribute to, or facilitate any activity
that fuels conflict or violates human
rights. Nokia does not tolerate, in any
context, the use of servitude, child
labor, forced labor, human trafficking, or
slavery in our operations in any region
in which we operate or in any part of our
global supply chain.
30 Nokia Code of ConductWe respect our people and community Human rights
What to watch out for What you need to know Consider this scenario:
• Conducting business in countries where the rule • Nokia provides limited, core “lawful intercept”
of law is weak or where the government is not a capabilities based on clear standards and on a
result of free and open democratic processes. transparent foundation in law. Operators are
required in most countries, as part of their license
• Requests for subscriber data beyond that which is
to operate, to provide such capabilities and to
provided in the normal course of business in cases
assist authorities in legitimate law enforcement.
where Nokia manages the network.
I have heard that one of our suppliers
• Nokia conducts due diligence in the pre-sales
• Requests from operators in higher-risk countries withholds employees’ passports for
process and follows international standards to help
for specific features, such as location-based data or ‘safekeeping,’ and their wages are held
ensure that our products are used to enhance, and
more detailed subscriber data on traffic or events, in accounts controlled by the employer.
not infringe, human rights.
in addition to standard functionality. Is this a concern?
• Nokia also conducts due diligence on its suppliers
• Suppliers or contractors that appear to employ
and business partners to ensure that they share
underage workers or fail to provide safe or
Nokia’s commitment to human rights.
healthy workplaces or adequate employment
documentation upon request, including records • Nokia complies with applicable laws and
of wages paid. participates in industry initiatives to support
human rights and to validate that the minerals and
• Use of minerals from conflict countries that are
metals used in our products do not contribute to
regulated by international authorities.
conflict.
• Nokia does not unlawfully or improperly use or
exploit natural resources. Nokia tracks the origin Yes. It is your obligation to raise this issue
of the metals in our products through the supply with Legal and Compliance or through one
chain back to smelters. of the reporting channels. Employers who
retain travel documents and have other
unacceptable controls over employees
might be committing modern slavery
offenses. It is an obligation to report this
to the company.
31Privacy
and data
Policy overview
protection At Nokia, we believe that privacy is
everyone’s business. We consider privacy
as enabling trust in our technology,
business, and operations. Privacy is
important for all of us as individuals.
Nokia holds itself up to the highest
standards of protecting personal data.
Our business is built on trust. Respecting
privacy and protecting personal data is
not simply about being compliant with
data protection laws; it is a fundamental
value for Nokia as a trustworthy and
ethical company.
Nokia collects, uses, holds, and processes
personal data responsibly, ethically, and in
compliance with data protection laws.
Nokia’s Privacy Policy embodies our
Privacy principles. We build privacy and
security into the design of our products
and services and employ appropriate
safeguards to protect personal data
against unauthorized use or disclosure
while keeping it confidential.
Such safeguards ensure a level of security
appropriate to the risks presented by
processing activities and the nature of
the personal data.
32 Nokia Code of ConductWe respect our people and community Privacy and data protection
What to watch out for What you need to know Consider this scenario:
• Always follow the requirements defined in our • Personal data refers to any data that could identify an
customer agreements about how we access, individual. This may include direct business and human
collect, and handle personal data. Do not collect, resources-related information such as contact details,
process, or store personal data in a way that is personal profiles, or the voice, image, and location
I am a member of a team that is developing
incompatible with our customer commitments or of an individual. However, it also includes indirect
an app to help users troubleshoot their
our internal privacy processes and policies. information such as a national security number, an
internet access. My colleagues would like
IP address, a device, or application identifier. When in
• When storing personal data, ensure it is in a to collect the GPS location of users in order
doubt, you should treat information as personal data.
protected environment. Do not leave personal to see which users are the most active
data on a printer, shared server, or publicly • Only access and use the personal data that is geographically. Although the app includes
accessible computer or website. necessary to fulfill the purpose it was collected for. a general consent for data collection, it
does not specify or allow for an opt out
• When personal data is no longer necessary for • Any personal data of our employees, customers, and
of GPS location data. Should I raise a data
the purpose it was collected, it should be deleted, suppliers must be collected fairly and based on a lawful
protection concern?
destroyed, or anonymized. ground (such as consent, contract, legitimate interest).
• Only disclose personal data to those persons and • Data collected must be specific, relevant, adequate,
organizations authorized to access it. and limited to what is necessary for the legitimate
purposes for which it is collected and used.
• If you receive a privacy-related request from a
customer, provider or any other individual, direct • Nokia must be transparent and open with individuals
the request to your privacy lead or the Global about how and why personal data is collected and
Yes. Collecting GPS location data is not
Privacy Office. Employees are bound by a duty used, including individuals and systems that will have
necessary for the core function of the app
of confidentiality and are required to ensure access to the data, individual’s privacy rights and
and goes beyond the delivery of the core
protection of personal data. where the data may be processed.
service provided (support troubleshooting).
• If you suspect a breach of personal data, you • The cost of privacy violations can be substantial and Since users are not given the option to
should report it immediately to your line manager may expose both the company and you to civil and refuse only the GPS location data, they
or the Information Security team or by sending an criminal penalties in certain cases. cannot use the app unless they consent to
email to cyber.incident@nokia.com. all the data collection. Thus, the consent
• Know and follow Nokia’s privacy policies, statements,
cannot be considered as being freely given
and principles, which can be found here.
and therefore is not valid.
33Controllership
Policy overview
Nokia implements appropriate controls to
ensure that it represents its financial data
accurately, completely, and consistently,
protects its assets, and reports its
transactions in a timely and objective
manner that faithfully reflect their actual
impact on business performance.
Nokia is committed to complying with
the applicable laws and regulations
in all the countries Nokia is operating
in that govern its financial accounting
and reporting to government agencies,
investors, and the public.
34 Nokia Code of ConductWe safeguard our assets Controllership
What to watch out for What you need to know Consider this scenario:
• Financial transactions recorded in error, with • Make and maintain complete and accurate records
the wrong date or with a misleading description, of Nokia’s financial transactions and assets,
including false expenses and purchase orders or including operating metrics and results, to ensure
inaccurate time sheets and vouchers. a complete audit trail.
• Transactions that do not make fundamental • Pay close attention to the safekeeping of Nokia’s
business sense, decisions that are inconsistent financial, physical, and informational assets,
My team did not utilize all the budget
with sound business economics, or financial including intellectual property.
approved this year. To maintain the same
results that do not appear consistent with actual
• Before signing a document or approving a funding amount next year, is it acceptable
business performance.
transaction, verify the facts and completeness for me to ask a vendor to pre-bill Nokia
• Efforts to avoid appropriate reviews for a of the information, and consider the underlying this year for one of next year’s projects?
transaction or actions inconsistent with an business rationale for the approval. Check your
employee’s level of authority. own signature authority for such a transaction
before you sign it.
• Physical assets that are not appropriately
protected against loss or theft, or any effort to • Ensure that Nokia’s accounting and retention
dispose of an asset without proper authorization. procedures, as well as other applicable accounting
principles and regulations, are consistently followed;
• Any absence of controls on transactions such as
when in doubt, ask.
dual signatures on checks or required approvals
on expenses, particularly where cash is involved. • Do not create fraudulent records, falsify documents,
or otherwise misrepresent facts, transactions, or
financial data. Be candid and transparent.
No. This would qualify as falsifying expenses
recorded in our books and records,
misrepresenting when the company would
incur the expense. The law requires us to
maintain accurate books and records and
the company could face significant fines.
35Intellectual property
and confidential
Policy overview
information
Nokia invests in and rewards innovation.
Nokia’s intellectual property – which
includes patents, software, and other
copyrighted materials; know-how and
trade secrets; and brands and trademarks
– is among its most valuable assets.
We actively protect our intellectual
property and follow Nokia classification
and handling guidelines for our
intellectual property and confidential
information. We respect the valid
intellectual property and confidential
information of others.
36 Nokia Code of ConductWe safeguard our assets Intellectual property and confidential information
What to watch out for What you need to know Consider this scenario:
• Obtaining or using ideas, material, or information • When dealing with intellectual property or
belonging to another person or company without confidential information, ask these questions:
proper authorization, which could include copying
– Who owns this? May I use it?
or using images, open source software, unsolicited
– W ith whom may I share this?
ideas from outsiders, or written material obtained
How do I protect its value?
from online sources or third parties.
– H as the term of my licensed use expired?
• Giving licenses, rights, or access to our I have just developed an idea to solve a
– I f so, is there any action I need to take?
intellectual property or other information without technical problem. How can I find out if
authorization or accepting intellectual property • Authorization to grant rights under Nokia-owned the idea should be protected by a patent?
or confidential information without consulting intellectual property, particularly rights under
Legal and Compliance. patents, is strictly limited, and you must not
grant such rights without the required internal
• Sending sensitive information to unattended
approvals.
printers, discussing confidential information
openly when others might be able to hear, or • Protect Nokia confidential information and trade
creating written material without labeling it secrets from unauthorized disclosure and misuse,
according to Nokia information classification and and do not share such information with third
handling instructions. parties except under approved terms that restrict
its disclosure and use.
• Misuse of Nokia intellectual property or
confidential information by others, which might • Respect and protect the intellectual property and
include for example “reverse engineering” of confidential information of others with the same
The first stop should be the Nokia Inventor
Nokia’s patented products, processes, services, degree of care we afford our own and according to
Central web page, where you will find
or designs. Report such misuse immediately to the terms of any applicable agreement.
information on the invention submission
Legal and Compliance.
• Follow Nokia’s processes and engage our process, patent protection, inventor
• Failing to honor your obligations under a non- intellectual property teams to help you properly recognition, and more. If you have further
disclosure agreement or invention assignment harvest, protect, and enforce intellectual property questions, reach out to Nokia’s Intellectual
agreement between you and Nokia. and confidential information rights, including the Property team.
review of any conflict of interest situations that may
impact Nokia’s intellectual property.
37Insider trading
Policy overview
Nokia is a large, global, publicly traded
company. Virtually every country
regulates its capital markets, and a key
element of such regulations relates to
equal access to information about the
shares traded on the exchange.
In their work, employees may learn
material, non-public information about
Nokia or other companies. Using this
material, non-public information for
personal or financial benefit, for example
to buy or sell shares, or sharing this
information with others, impairs the
integrity of the market, violates our
policies, and is likely a violation of
the law.
38 Nokia Code of ConductWe safeguard our assets Insider trading
What to watch out for What you need to know Consider this scenario:
• Buying or selling a security based on information • Inside information means any material, non-public
you heard or learned at work or anywhere else information regarding a company or its securities
that you believe will affect the price of the security that, if disclosed, would likely have a significant
once that information becomes publicly known. effect on the price of those securities or influence
one’s decision to buy, sell, or hold the securities.
• Sharing non-public information about Nokia or
I have learned that Nokia is considering
other companies with anyone such as friends, • While holding inside information, employees are
acquiring a small, publicly traded software
family, or business associates who might then use prohibited from:
company. As long as it will not benefit me
this information to engage in financial trades.
– T rading in (purchasing or selling, directly or personally, can I share this information
• “Tipping off” or recommending Nokia or other indirectly) the company’s securities; with someone who could acquire some
securities to anyone such as friends, family, shares of this company in anticipation of
– R ecommending or advising others in trades in
or business associates when you might have the acquisition?
the securities;
material, non-public information about Nokia or
other companies. – D isclosing such inside information to another
person.
• Engaging in any trading activities when you are
in possession of inside information. If you are a • If you believe that there is a legitimate business
Financial Reporting Person, as defined in the Nokia reason to disclose inside information in the
Insider Policy, you also need to follow the closed normal course of your employment, please
window periods specified in the Policy. consult with Legal and Compliance or the
designated project owner of the related insider
.
project before doing so.
No. The sharing of material, non-public
information violates the Nokia Code
of Conduct and Nokia policies, and is
generally illegal.
39Speaking up
Violations of our Code of Conduct erode the trust Nokia’s policy on anti-retaliation
we have built with our shareholders, customers,
Nokia is committed to maintaining a culture in
and other stakeholders. In addition, failure to
which our employees feel comfortable raising
follow the Code can put your colleagues and
concerns about potential violations of the Code
our business at risk. For these reasons, you are
of Conduct. Nokia will not tolerate any adverse
obligated to raise a concern promptly if you
employment action against an employee who raises
become aware of a potential or suspected violation
a compliance concern in good faith. Any employee
of the Code.
who retaliates or participates in retaliating against
Nokia employees are also expected to report another employee for raising a compliance concern
concerns arising with or between third parties if will be subject to strict discipline, up to and including
the concern may have an impact on Nokia, Nokia termination of employment.
employees, or Nokia business. This would include,
for example, inappropriate behavior between Confidential reporting
vendor employees while working on Nokia property.
Concerns can be raised to the Ethics Helpline
By quickly reporting suspected violations, you are anonymously (although a small number of jurisdictions
helping the company maintain its reputation and impose certain limitations on anonymous reporting).
address potential problems before they have an Should you elect to raise your concern anonymously,
adverse impact – be it financial, reputational, or you will not be required to provide your name or other
legal – on the company. identifying information. You should, however, provide
sufficient details regarding your concern so that Nokia
We acknowledge that it takes courage to speak up, can follow up appropriately. Nokia respects anonymity
especially about sensitive issues, ethical dilemmas, and uses the Ethics Helpline case management system
and admitting honest mistakes, and applaud to communicate with anonymous reporters.
employees for raising their hand when something
doesn’t seem quite right. It’s in our best interest to
speak up, even if that means admitting a mistake.
40 Nokia Code of ConductSpeaking up
Addressing concerns Corrective action and discipline
We take each concern seriously. The Legal and An important aspect of our compliance program
Compliance team will review and promptly address is taking effective corrective action and, where
your concern for appropriate follow-up and appropriate, employee disciplinary action. Subject
resolution. This may involve assigning an investigator to local law, disciplinary action, up to and including
to look into the concern. The investigator may be termination of employment, will depend on several
assisted by auditors or other experts as needed to factors, including but not limited to:
fully understand the concern. The team will track your
concern from initiation to its resolution to ensure that • The conduct being intentional or deliberate or
it receives careful and thorough attention. involving a law violation;
At the end of the investigation, if it is determined that • The conduct involving dishonesty, theft, fraud,
or personal gain;
an employee or third party working with Nokia has
violated applicable laws, policies, or the Nokia Code • The conduct being repetitive or systemic or
of Conduct, corrective action including disciplinary involving efforts to conceal;
action may be imposed. We will share feedback, while
• The employee’s full and complete cooperation
respecting confidentiality, with the person who raised
(or lack thereof) with the investigation;
the concern and share lessons learned with the wider
business when possible and appropriate. • The employee’s seniority within the organization;
the higher the level of seniority, the higher the
responsibility to act and to lead ethically.
Employees will be provided with an opportunity to
present any additional relevant information that
may not have been considered before a disciplinary
decision is made.
41Speaking up
Ombuds Program Channels for speaking up
Nokia’s speak-up culture and anti-retaliation policy Ombuds leaders are a supplemental channel
empower employees to openly raise and discuss for raising compliance concerns in addition to
compliance questions and concerns and to seek managers and the Legal and Compliance and People
guidance. The Ombuds Program is a critical element organizations. Concerns can also be raised to the
of our compliance program and culture. It is designed Nokia Ethics Helpline via the Ethics Helpline icon on
to support and strengthen an environment of your desktop PC or by telephone. You may also write
fairness, equality, respect, and honesty, where to our CEO or our Board of Directors. All concerns,
everyone is expected to deliver results without irrespective of the channels used to report, are
compromising integrity. handled confidentially and thoroughly investigated.
Nokia has appointed a global network of local Ombuds
leaders who are selected and trained to provide
neutral and confidential guidance to its employees on
ethical and compliance matters.
In situations where next steps may not be very clear,
Ombuds leaders provide guidance to employees, help
determine if a matter warrants being reported, and
identify appropriate resources if needed.
Email ombuds@nokia.com
42 Nokia Code of Conduct 42Speaking up
When you speak up, we listen up
@
Online Phone Email People you can talk to
https://nokiacms.i-sight.com/portal https://nokiacms.i-sight.com/portal/ ethics@nokia.com Managers: Your manager or any
dialing-instructions manager in Nokia can be approached
Access Nokia’s Ethics Helpline by clicking ombuds@nokia.com to raise a concern or discuss a
on the link. Nokia employees can also Access local calling numbers by
compliance matter.
Send an email to one of these
access it by clicking on the “Ethics clicking on the link. Select any one
addresses to raise a compliance
Helpline” desktop icon on their PC. of the available languages to conduct Legal and Compliance team: Legal &
question or concern.
your call in the language you are Compliance, including Business Group
most comfortable. and Regional Compliance Leaders, are
available to provide support.
People organization: The People
organization is another channel that
employees can use for raising concerns.
Ombuds leaders: Ombuds leaders are
neutral and confidential resources that
can assist with compliance questions
and concerns.
43Nokia OYJ
Karakaari 7
02610 Espoo
Finland
nokia.com/about-us/investors/corporate-governance/code-of-conduct
About Nokia
At Nokia, we create technology that helps the world act together.
As a B2B technology innovation leader, we are pioneering the future where networks meet cloud to
realize the full potential of digital in every industry.
Through networks that sense, think and act, we work with our customers and partners to create the
digital services and applications of the future.
Nokia is a registered trademark of Nokia Corporation. Other product and company names mentioned
herein may be trademarks or trade names of their respective owners.
© 2023 Nokia