Our CodeTable of Contents
A Letter From Jensen 03 Integrity and Fairness 06
NVIDIA’s Core Values 04 Respect 09
Our Expectations—Following Our Code 05 Passion for Our Products and Customers 11
Trust 12
Corporate Responsibility 14
Reporting Concerns 15A Letter From Jensen NVIDIA’s Core Values Our Expectations Integrity and Fairness Respect Passion Trust Corporate Responsibility Reporting Concerns
A Letter From Jensen
At NVIDIA, the best and brightest can do their › Second, extreme collaboration is needed a safe and inclusive environment. We value
life’s work and build a great life and family. across diverse skills and organizations to diversity and inclusion, which enables us to
We advance computing to tackle impactful build full-stack, data center-scale products. achieve this goal. Additionally, we recognize
challenges no other companies can and Our company architecture demands our responsibility to maintain high ethical
problems that are nearly impossible today. cross-functional innovation and standards and identify concerns through
In doing so, we create future markets and transparency–no one fails alone. NVIDIA’s Speak Up hotline. By upholding these
a better tomorrow. principles, we demonstrate our corporate
› Third, approach problems from first principles,
responsibility to each other, as well as our
NVIDIA pioneers accelerated and AI computing, limited only by laws of physics. We call this
customers, partners, and the communities
innovating across the entire stack, the whole philosophy Speed-of-Light, and we apply
we serve.
data center, and from cloud to robotic systems. it to every aspect of our work. It impacts
We build platforms for a rich ecosystem everything from performance and cost to Review Our Code to ensure that each of us
of developers and a network of partners to extreme operating efficiency, driving for upholds the principles that are essential
create new markets. We possess deep domain “no waste” in everything we do, whether for preserving NVIDIA’s reputation as a
expertise to collaborate with researchers it is, yield, quality, design reuse, or One distinguished and exceptional company.
and innovators in the world’s most important Architecture platform leverage.
Together, we can continue to demonstrate
industries. NVIDIA’s computing platform is
› Finally, staying alert and agile. Technology why NVIDIA is a technology company
open and easily accessible to every computer
and the world are changing fast. Alertness like no other, creating the conditions for
maker, researcher, and developer in every field
and agility are our ultimate superpowers. our customers and partners to achieve
of science and industry.
breakthroughs that benefit society.
We encourage all our employees to uphold
NVIDIA architecture, operating principles, and
and be inspired by our core values and to
Thank you for being a part of the NVIDIA family.
values are the foundations of our one-of-a-kind
always follow and apply Our Code in their
company. We believe in the following:
work. We prioritize advances that enhance
environmental sustainability. We prioritize
› First, taking care of our people. NVIDIA
developing trustworthy AI to ensure this
builds amazing things. This takes amazing
powerful technology provides benefits. We Sincerely,
people. Everything starts with great people.
also recognize the importance of creating Jensen Huang
CEO and Founder, NVIDIA
Our Code | A Letter From Jensen 03A Letter From Jensen NVIDIA’s Core Values Our Expectations Integrity and Fairness Respect Passion Trust Corporate Responsibility Reporting Concerns
NVIDIA’s Core Values
Dream big, start small. Take risks, learn fast. Maintain the highest standards.
We make things that delight customers and raise industry standards. We hire extraordinarily talented individuals across the globe—people
We encourage employees to innovate, guided by first principles, not determined to make a difference. We challenge ourselves to do
consensus. We know our path to discovery will be paved with mistakes. our best work. We measure ourselves not against the competition,
We anticipate and avoid the ones we can. We accept, learn from, and but against perfection—what we call the Speed-of-Light test. We
Excellence and
Innovation share the ones that occur. This allows us to invent things the world Determination aren’t deterred by lengthy endeavors if they’re worthy. We’re playing
doesn’t even know it needs and, by doing so, invent the future. a long game.
Seek truth, learn from mistakes, share learnings. Do what’s best for the company.
We operate at the highest ethical standards. We seek to accurately We foster an environment of transparency, openness, and sharing
know ourselves and our capabilities—acknowledging our weaknesses information. One that motivates our employees and empowers them
and learning from our mistakes. The sharpest understanding of reality to work as a single integrated team. We disagree openly and directly
improves our work. Identifying the origins of mistakes is not about because conflict is essential to resolving differences, improving ideas,
Intellectual One Team
blame. It’s essential to learning and constant improvement. We say and achieving alignment. Our focus is on substance, not on style. By
Honesty
what we believe and have the courage to act on it. putting the interests of the company before our own, we can more
easily accomplish NVIDIA’s vision.
Learn, adapt, shape the world.
We’re alert, constantly learning, and willing to adjust our course to
align to new realities. This lets us create groundbreaking products
at astonishing speed. No politics or hierarchy stands in the way of
Speed and Agility inventing the future.
Our Code | NVIDIA’s Core Values 04A Letter From Jensen NVIDIA’s Core Values Our Expectations Integrity and Fairness Respect Passion Trust Corporate Responsibility Reporting Concerns
Our Expectations—Following Our Code
Every NVIDIA employee and board member and regulations may lead to additional required
is expected to read, understand, and comply training, disciplinary action, up to and including
with Our Code. termination of employment or service.
We expect all third parties we do business
with—including consultants, contractors, and Training
other service providers—to act with integrity
We complete training on Our Code, trade
and in a manner consistent with Our Code.
compliance, and preventing workplace
Our Code provides high-level guidance on our harassment upon hire and then every
core values. It’s impossible to spell out every two years. Employees who have frequent
ethical scenario we might face, so we rely contact with customers, partners, and
on our good judgment and high professional suppliers complete additional global
standards to uphold and apply Our Code. anti-bribery and anti-corruption training.
Along with the corporate guidelines and policies
Compliance Committee
linked within Our Code, we adhere to all
policies on NVINFO. NVIDIA’s Board of Directors has formed a
Compliance Committee to ensure ethics
When we have questions about Our Code or
concerns are addressed appropriately.
wish to report a concern, it’s our responsibility
to speak up. Notify a manager or reach out to
Waivers
Human Resources or Legal. Send an email to
Any waiver of Our Code requires written
NVIDIA-Compliance. Or report anonymously
approval from the Compliance Committee.
through the Speak Up site. All employees (and
If the waiver involves a member of the board
others subject to the Code) are protected
of directors or an executive officer, it will be
from retaliation.
disclosed in line with applicable rules or laws.
It’s our responsibility to respond to inappropriate
and unethical behavior. Failing to comply with
Our Code, NVIDIA’s policies, or applicable law
Our Code | Our Expectations—Following Our Code 05A Letter From Jensen NVIDIA’s Core Values Our Expectations Integrity and Fairness Respect Passion Trust Corporate Responsibility Reporting Concerns
Integrity and Fairness
We hold ourselves to the › We may also be held responsible for the acts
of our partners, agents, and representatives.
highest standards at all times.
When making ethical decisions, ask yourself:
› We should be particularly cautious when
We make ethical decisions. interacting with government officials or
1. Is it legal? others connected to a government and be
› When making decisions, we take the time
2. Is it consistent with Our Code, core values, and policies? aware of our business partners’ affiliations
to consider the implications of our actions
with government officials.
regarding the law, Our Code, and other 3. Could I defend my action if it became public on social media or came to the attention
NVIDIA policies. of respected colleagues? › When we accept or provide reasonable
gifts, entertainment, or hospitality from
› We ask ourselves what the impact would be if
Yes No and to third parties, we must seek
our conduct or action became public or came
preapprovals when required by our
to the attention of respected colleagues.
I must be able to answer “yes” to these questions. Do Not Proceed policies, and we kindly decline those that
› When it comes to ethical conduct, we do not comply with our policies.
err on the side of caution. If we’re unsure
› For questions, ask NVIDIA-Compliance.
of what to do, we ask our manager, our
human resources or legal department Ask for Advice Know our key policies and guidelines:
representative, or NVIDIA-Compliance.
Contact your manager, HR, Legal, or Compliance Anti-Corruption Policy
Gift, Entertainment, and Hospitality Policy
Managers serve as role models.
Gift, Entertainment, and Hospitality
› Managers at NVIDIA play a special role, Preapproval Process
We do not engage in bribery.
promoting equitable and ethical decisions,
Conflict of Interest Policy
and fostering safe working environments.
› It’s never acceptable to give, receive, or offer › Offering a bribe can lead to criminal sanctions Outside Activities-Conflict of Interest
Managers are expected to provide proper
a bribe or anything of value (including cash, and financial penalties against NVIDIA or its Preapproval Process
guidance to employees and are required to
gifts, entertainment, or hospitality) for a representatives.
report or escalate suspected violations of
corrupt or improper purpose, or for a third
Our Code or our policies promptly.
party to do so on our behalf.
Our Code | Integrity and Fairness 06A Letter From Jensen NVIDIA’s Core Values Our Expectations Integrity and Fairness Respect Passion Trust Corporate Responsibility Reporting Concerns
We avoid conflicts of interest. We do not limit competition. We meet our disclosure obligations.
The following types of activities
› We make decisions in the best interests › We don’t engage in activities that might › We’re committed to full, fair, accurate,
may create a conflict of interest:
of NVIDIA. limit competition or violate antitrust laws. timely, and clear disclosure in reports and
documents that we file with or submit to
› We avoid situations where our actions might › Advisory roles or board seat › We gather competitive information with
government agencies, as well as in other
create a conflict—actual or potential—between participation care, seeking only data that is publicly
public communications or in material
our personal gain and our obligations to available or licensed to us.
› Outside employment or consulting that we develop for internal use.
NVIDIA. If such conflicts arise, we immediately
› We conduct our internal discussions,
remove ourselves from any decision-making › Self-employment or volunteering
Know our key policies and guidelines:
deliberations, and activities as if they
role in the matter. (Inventions or app development,
were in public view. Finance Team Code
speaking or publishing opportunities,
› We don’t trade in derivatives of, short sell, or
teaching or research at a university
Know our key policies and guidelines:
hedge NVIDIA’s securities at any time, due to
level or higher, game development)
their potential to create a conflict of interest Antitrust and Competition Guidelines
with NVIDIA’s long-term objectives. › Investments or personal relationships
We comply with laws governing
› If involved in a situation that could present Outside Activities-Conflict of Interest
international trade.
a perceived or actual conflict of interest, Preapproval Process
contact Employment Legal for guidance. › Our products, services, and technologies
must comply with the import and export
Know our key policies and guidelines: regulations of the U.S., as well as all other
countries where they are made available.
Conflict of Interest Policy
Outside Activities-Conflict of Interest › Seek guidance from NVIDIA Global Trade
Preapproval Process to ensure that these transfers comply
with applicable laws.
Know our key policies and guidelines:
Trade Compliance Policy
Our Code | Integrity and Fairness 07A Letter From Jensen NVIDIA’s Core Values Our Expectations Integrity and Fairness Respect Passion Trust Corporate Responsibility Reporting Concerns
We do not trade on or disclose We maintain accurate business
non-public information. records.
› We create business records that are
› We don’t trade stock or other securities
complete, timely, understandable, and
of NVIDIA while we are aware of material,
reflective of the truth of the underlying
non-public information or, if applicable,
transaction or event. Always retain,
outside of designated trading periods
protect, and dispose of such records
(unless under a 10b5-1 trading plan).
according to policy.
› We don’t trade stock or other securities
› We only sign documents and contracts that
of other companies while we are aware
we are authorized to sign.
of non-public information about them,
including information that we learn through › Email and other electronic communications
our work with NVIDIA. may be business records. Avoid exaggeration,
derogatory language, and other expressions
› We don’t discuss material, non-public
that could be taken out of context or are in
information about NVIDIA with anyone
violation of company policy.
inside or outside the company without a
valid need to know.
Know our key policies and guidelines:
› We don’t make recommendations to anyone Authorization Matrix
regarding the buying, selling, or holding of
Contract Policy
NVIDIA stock.
Business Travel and Expense Policy
› We don’t hold NVIDIA securities in a margin Records Retention Policy
account or pledge NVIDIA securities.
Finance Team Code
Finance Policies
Know our key policies and guidelines:
Insider Trading Policy
Insider Trading FAQ
10b5-1 Trading Plan Guidelines
Our Code | Integrity and Fairness 08A Letter From Jensen NVIDIA’s Core Values Our Expectations Integrity and Fairness Respect Passion Trust Corporate Responsibility Reporting Concerns
Respect
We treat all people inside and right of workers to refrain from such characteristics, or appearance; unwanted “We dedicate ourselves to
activities. We seek employee feedback sexual advances, invitations, or comments;
outside of the company with
building a just, decent,
regularly, and we value solicited and untitling; addressing or referring to a
dignity and respect.
unsolicited suggestions as to how we transgender or non-binary person by a name and inclusive company.
can improve. that they no longer use (also referred to as
We honor human rights. We must be empathetic
deadnaming), or addressing or referring to
› We respect the rights of others to have
› We comply with all applicable laws, respect them by word or a pronoun that does not to the experience of
their views, whether we agree with
correctly reflect the gender with which they
internationally recognized human rights
them or not.
underrepresented groups
identify (also referred to as misgendering)
where we operate, and support the rights
of employees in our suppliers’ operations. Know our key policies and guidelines: after being asked not to do so. and act to make NVIDIA
Human Rights Policy › This standard applies to our relations with
› We don’t engage in child labor, forced, a place of opportunities.
Combatting Trafficking in Persons Policy customers, partners, co-workers, and fellow
bonded, or indentured labor, involuntary
community members around the world. We do this because it is
prison labor, slavery, trafficking of persons,
or physical punishment. We treat each other with respect. Know our key policies and guidelines: right and just, and we
› We offer competitive wages and benefits › We foster an environment of mutual respect,
Policy Prohibiting Discrimination, believe it will help make
worldwide, honor working hours and work honesty, and openness, where each employee Harassment, and Retaliation
weeks that comply with local laws, ensure is treated as a valued contributor. NVIDIA better.”
safe working conditions, and expect
› We don’t tolerate actions, words, or gestures
contractors and vendors to treat their Jensen Huang
that are abusive or harmful to others, are
employees lawfully.
intimidating, or create an offensive or hostile
› We respect the right of all workers to form work environment. This includes but is not
and join trade unions, to bargain collectively, limited to: offensive conduct; derogatory
and to engage in peaceful assembly as jokes or comments; microaggressions;
defined by local laws. We also respect the remarks about personal choices, physical
Our Code | Respect 09A Letter From Jensen NVIDIA’s Core Values Our Expectations Integrity and Fairness Respect Passion Trust Corporate Responsibility Reporting Concerns
We promote diversity, inclusion, firearms, or other weapons onto NVIDIA
equity, and belonging. premises or while conducting NVIDIA business.
› A diverse workforce results in diverse › Threats of any kind—including intimidation,
perspectives, which in turn stimulates stalking, or acts of violence—will not
creativity and innovation. Everyone is Diversity Inclusion be tolerated.
welcome here. Improve representation Ensure each person is
in all geographies, engaged and inspired to › We expect our suppliers and partners to
› We treat each individual fairly and do job functions and levels. do their life’s work. comply with all applicable environmental
not tolerate discrimination, harassment, health, safety, and security laws and
or teasing. standards in their operations.
One Team
› Our perspectives on diversity extend
Know our key policies and guidelines:
beyond employees and potential employees
Environment, Health, Safety,
to include how we treat our suppliers,
and Energy Policy
partners, investors, customers, and fellow Belonging Equity
Drug Free Workplace and Alcohol Use Policy
community members. Cultivating an environment Strive for equitable outcomes
of community, comradery, with pay, development, and Policy Prohibiting Discrimination,
Know our key policies and guidelines: and support. promotions. Harassment, and Retaliation
Equal Employment Opportunity Policy Smoking Policy
Policy Prohibiting Discrimination,
Harassment, and Retaliation We create a safe, secure work
environment.
Gender Identity and Expression
in the Workplace › We create a safe and secure workplace, › Employees must follow established protocols,
in compliance with applicable environmental program requirements, regulations, and
health, safety, and security laws and workplace practices, including instructions
standards. from environmental health and safety,
security, and emergency response personnel.
› We foster a supportive environment where
employees feel respected and protected › We must not be under the influence of
when proposing ideas, asking questions, alcohol or drugs (including marijuana)
escalating concerns, or admitting mistakes. while at work, and we may not bring drugs,
Our Code | Respect 10A Letter From Jensen NVIDIA’s Core Values Our Expectations Integrity and Fairness Respect Passion Trust Corporate Responsibility Reporting Concerns
Passion for Our Products and Customers
We delight our customers process—from data collection to Know our key policies and guidelines: › We promptly contact our legal department
decommissioning. When necessary, our if we receive an inquiry from a government
with our innovative products. Copyrighted Material Policy
AI Ethics Committee considers the official or agency. Legal will guide us in
Trademark Clearance Policy
implications of offering a product. complying with government inspections,
We provide quality products
investigations, and requests.
and services. We foster long-term partnerships.
Know our key policies and guidelines:
Know our key policies and guidelines:
› We take pride not only in creating innovative Quality Policy › We enter into relationships committed to
products that transform our customers’ Trustworthy AI promoting our partners’ interests, as well U.S. Federal Government Contracting
experience for the better, but also doing as our own. Guidelines
so while maintaining transparency and We market our products and
› We conduct ourselves and our business with
integrity in our business relationships. services accurately.
the highest ethical standards by never taking
› Our innovation enables NVIDIA to deliver › We always position and market our products undue advantage of a business relationship
value to our customers, our shareholders, to maintain the value of our innovation. and never sacrificing a long-term relationship
and ourselves. for a short-term gain.
› We don’t create misleading impressions in any
› We support the use of our products for advertising, marketing, or sales materials or We comply with government
socially beneficial purposes and work to presentations and don’t make false or illegal contracting requirements.
address the risks of potential harm. claims about competitors or their offerings.
› We provide services and products to
› We ensure our customers can trust our › We protect the NVIDIA brand and its
governments, which often impose rules
products by sharing important information trademarks and only use them in accordance
that are different from—and more
about how they are built and work. with our policy and with proper authorization.
restrictive than—those that apply to
› When it comes to artificial intelligence, › For our artificial intelligence products, we purely commercial transactions.
we take a proactive approach to identify use model cards to explain how a model
› We comply with these requirements and
and address issues of trustworthiness was designed, trained, and tested, how it
view doing business with governments as
concerns throughout the development performs, and its intended purpose.
a special trust and responsibility.
Our Code | Passion For Our Products and Customers 11A Letter From Jensen NVIDIA’s Core Values Our Expectations Integrity and Fairness Respect Passion Trust Corporate Responsibility Reporting Concerns
Trust
We protect assets, data, and return all such assets, intellectual property, Know our key policies and guidelines:
and documents immediately upon request How to protect NVIDIA
personal information, and NVIDIA Team Privacy Notice
or upon termination of employment. and third-party confidential
put the company’s interests Confidential Information Policy
information:
ahead of our own. Know our key policies and guidelines: Information Security Policy
› Avoid leaving confidential information
Corporate Purchasing Policy
We respect privacy and protect where unauthorized individuals
We safeguard NVIDIA assets. NVIDIA Team Privacy Notice
personal information. can access.
Information Security Policy
› NVIDIA’s assets should be used only for
› We protect the personal information of › Limit disclosure to those who need
ethical and legal purposes that benefit the Third Party LLMs Including ChatGPT
Use Guidelines current and former employees, members to know.
company and its shareholders, and should
of our Board of Directors, customers, job
not be used to engage in outside commercial › Secure or destroy confidential
We uphold confidentiality. applicants, online users, business partners,
activities or illegal activities, or to create, information per our Information
and suppliers.
store, or send content that others might Security Policy.
› We protect confidential or proprietary
find offensive. › We obtain and use personal information
information whether it belongs to › Report any suspected breaches
solely for legitimate business purposes in
› Spend NVIDIA’s capital only in accordance NVIDIA or to others. to Security.
accordance with applicable privacy policies,
with applicable policy.
› We keep documents, emails, and other and we don’t collect personal data that › Obtain NDAs or other contractual
› Keep personal use of NVIDIA’s assets to a information confidential and only we don’t need. protections when working with
minimum and avoid any use that might lead disseminate them outside of NVIDIA when third parties.
› We never share this information with a
to loss or damage, including the introduction required for business reasons and with
third party or any colleague who doesn’t › Stamp materials “NVIDIA Confidential”
of viruses or a breach of IT security. appropriate confidentiality agreements.
have a need to know. before sharing with third parties.
› We’re responsible for all NVIDIA’s assets › When we choose to release information,
and intellectual property entrusted to us. we must ensure that we do so through the Know our key policies and guidelines:
We take care to prevent the loss, theft, right channels and in a manner that properly NVIDIA Team Privacy Notice
unauthorized selling or reselling, and misuse protects NVIDIA and any confidential Information Security Policy
of NVIDIA assets, IP, or documents. We must information, regardless of its owner.
Our Code | Trust 12A Letter From Jensen NVIDIA’s Core Values Our Expectations Integrity and Fairness Respect Passion Trust Corporate Responsibility Reporting Concerns
We respect intellectual property. We communicate responsibly with We engage in responsible travel and
external parties. entertainment.
› We respect the intellectual property of
others, just as we expect others to respect › Except for authorized spokespersons (our › NVIDIA recognizes that gifts, entertainment,
our intellectual property. CEO, CFO, Investor Relations personnel, and and hospitality can be used to lawfully
certain other individuals as described in our and appropriately promote positive
› We use patents and copyrighted material
policy), we may not communicate on behalf business relations.
belonging to others only after obtaining
of NVIDIA or about NVIDIA’s business to the
the proper licenses and permissions. › We operate ethically and transparently, and
press, analysts, the financial community,
do not use gifts, entertainment, or hospitality
› We cite others’ trademarks in accordance investment research firms, or shareholders,
to improperly influence business decisions.
with the owners’ guidelines. or in public forums.
› We politely decline or return gifts and
› We don’t use NVIDIA networks, computers, › Refer any questions from investors or
entertainment that do not comply with
or other resources to acquire, share, or financial analysts to our Investor Relations
our company policies.
store copyrighted material that isn’t department and any questions from
properly licensed. the press or other media outlets to our › When we travel for approved business
Corporate Communications department. purposes, we will be reimbursed for
› We treat the proprietary information of
reasonable and appropriate travel and
our business partners as confidential, › We don’t share or post confidential company
entertainment expenses that are permitted
and we protect it just as we do our own. information externally, unless approved by
by our company policies, and supported
our Corporate Communications department.
Know our key policies and guidelines: by accurate and complete documentation
of our expenses.
Confidential Information Policy Know our key policies and guidelines:
Copyrighted Material Policy Shareholder and Analyst Communications › We strive to minimize expenses while
Trademark Clearance Policy Policy maintaining integrity, productivity, and safety.
Social Media Policy
Use of Third-Party Proprietary Source and
Know our key policies and guidelines:
Open-Source Policy Insider Trading Policy
Business Travel and Expense Policy
Insider Trading FAQ
Gift, Entertainment, and Hospitality Policy
Our Code | Trust 13A Letter From Jensen NVIDIA’s Core Values Our Expectations Integrity and Fairness Respect Passion Trust Corporate Responsibility Reporting Concerns
Corporate Responsibility
We are an asset to every We conserve the environment. We strive to improve our communities. NVIDIA alone represents the
company’s rights in the political
community where we do
› We strive to reduce the climate and › We work with and contribute to charitable
process.
business. environmental impacts of our activities and community organizations.
by designing energy-efficient technology › We have the right and are encouraged
› We encourage our employees to engage in
We source products and select and working with our suppliers and to pursue personal interests such as active
community organizations and charities as
suppliers carefully. partners engaged in manufacturing to participation in the political process in
their conscience and desires dictate. Unless
create our products in an environmentally our communities, as individuals and not
› Our commitments to our customers and volunteering as part of a company-organized
responsible manner. as NVIDIA representatives.
partners extend to our supply chain. event, we ensure that we do not give the
› In our activities, we aim to use impression that we represent or are acting › We ensure that our individual political views
› We are Full members of the Responsible
environmentally sustainable products and on behalf of NVIDIA; we do not use NVIDIA and activities are not viewed as those of
Business Alliance (RBA), and we have
services, minimize waste, reduce greenhouse assets or resources, nor do we engage in NVIDIA. We don’t engage in individual political
adopted the RBA Code of Conduct.
gas emissions, and prevent pollution. these activities during work time. activities during work time or use NVIDIA
› We require our suppliers to comply with facilities, intellectual property, or assets.
› We operate in full compliance with applicable
Know our key policies and guidelines:
the RBA Code of Conduct, as NVIDIA’s
environmental legislation, and we expect › NVIDIA only seeks to affect government
supply chain code of conduct, and Corporate Responsibility Directive
our suppliers and partners to do the same. action on issues that directly impact
to align with other internationally
our business and only through specifically
recognized standards related to social Know our key policies and guidelines:
authorized and legally compliant
and environmental responsibility.
Environment, Health, Safety, and lobbying activities.
Energy Policy
Know our key policies and guidelines:
Know our key policies and guidelines:
Corporate Responsibility Directive
Corporate Responsibility Directive
Political Contributions and Expenditures
Our Code | Corporate Responsibility 14A Letter From Jensen NVIDIA’s Core Values Our Expectations Integrity and Fairness Respect Passion Trust Corporate Responsibility Reporting Concerns
Reporting Concerns
We speak up if we believe We promptly investigate reports We cooperate with investigations. How to raise a concern
of misconduct.
someone is behaving illegally
› Unless otherwise provided by law, we’re
Voice your concern—Speak Up
or unethically. › The Compliance Committee and its delegates required to cooperate with internal and
You’re protected when reporting a concern.
investigate reports of suspected violations external investigations and to provide
We must act when we are aware of Our Code promptly, thoroughly, and in complete, accurate, and truthful information. Reporting options:
of misconduct. accordance with our legal obligations.
› Our Legal department responds to litigation › Your manager or HR
› We must report our concerns or suspected › Confidentiality, including the identity of the or requests from governmental or other › NVIDIA Legal team
violations of Our Code or our policies to parties and witnesses, is maintained to the external agencies.
› NVIDIA-Compliance
a resource that we are most comfortable fullest extent possible, except as necessary
› We never alter, destroy, or delete records in
› EthicsPoint Speak Up
using, such as a manager, a human resources to conduct the investigation.
response to anticipated or actual litigation,
or legal representative, or NVIDIA-Compliance.
› After reviewing all of the available information, investigations, or audits.
EthicsPoint Speak Up
Each will respond and promptly elevate it by
we may determine that remedial action (such
› To preserve the integrity of an investigation,
emailing NVIDIA-Compliance.
as additional training, enhanced controls or
we should not discuss aspects of the
› We can make an anonymous complaint by changed protocol, or coaching) or disciplinary
investigation with anyone, including the
calling NVIDIA’s external Speak Up line, or by action (including termination of employment)
reporter, implicated party, or potential
submitting a complaint via this online portal. is necessary.
witnesses, during the pendency of
› It is a violation of Our Code to knowingly › Remedial action taken will be appropriate the investigation.
Global Mobile Access Report Online
make a false accusation. under the circumstances to prevent and
Know our key policies and guidelines:
correct behavior; details of such actions
are generally not disclosed to reporters Records Retention Policy
or witnesses.
Report by Phone
Our Code | Reporting Concerns 15A Letter From Jensen NVIDIA’s Core Values Our Expectations Integrity and Fairness Respect Passion Trust Corporate Responsibility Reporting Concerns
NVIDIA does not tolerate retaliation.
When do we speak up?
› NVIDIA doesn’t tolerate retaliation
These are a few examples of when we against anyone who, in good faith, What happens when you speak up?
should seek guidance and report concerns reports a concern or cooperates with
when we are aware of misconduct: an investigation, even when allegations Our investigation process
are found to be unsubstantiated.
› You suspect or are aware of a violation
1. Intake | Speak Up 2. Assess | Assign
› Depending on the particular allegations,
to Our Code or our policies.
the identity of a reporter or respondent
› You’re protected when reporting › Compliance team assesses
› Laws have been violated or a crime may be apparent to others (including
a concern. the allegation.
has been committed. witnesses interviewed in connection
› Report to your manager, the › It determines if there’s a
with an investigation). Reporters and
› You are aware of a bribe or potential
Employee Resource Center, potential policy violation.
respondents should not be approached
bribe.
Legal, NVIDIA-Compliance, or
regarding investigations. Even where › It assigns an investigator.
› The situation involves harm to EthicsPoint Speak Up.
intentions are good, this may make
property, the environment, or to the › All matters are carefully
a person feel uncomfortable. › In most cases, you may choose
health and safety of individuals. considered and handled
to remain anonymous.
› Where a reporter’s (or respondent’s) discreetly.
› An investigation has been
identity is not apparent, we should not
compromised.
speculate about, or attempt to identify,
› You are aware of retaliation. such individuals.
3. Investigate | No Retaliation 4. Completion | Resolution
› Review documentation. › Gain necessary approvals.
› Interview witnesses, who are › Carry out recommended
equally protected. actions.
› Finalize report, including › Follow up with investigation
conclusion and recommendations. participants.
› Close investigation.
Our Code | Reporting Concerns 16Please see NVIDIA’s Corporate Policy repository to review the additional global and
country specific policies that apply to your work location.
© 2023 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.