FAIRNESS
Our Code.
Our Connection.
QUALITY
Our Success.
CUSTOMER
SATISFACTION
ORACLE CODE OF ETHICS
AND BUSINESS CONDUCT
INNOVATION
INTEGRITY
COMMUNICATION
ETHICS
TEAMWORK
COMPLIANCE
MUTUAL RESPECTTable of Contents
01 Code of Ethics and business Conduct 02 Conflicts of Interest 47
A Message from Our Most Senior Leaders 03 Gathering Information about About Our Competitors or Other Third Parties 50
Our Core Values 05 Contracting 52
Our Code 06 Spending and Signing Authority 52
Your Role 07 Use of Oracle Resources 54
Financial Integrity 55
Speak Up 09
Public Disclosures 56
02 Code Rules 11
Records Retention 58
Antitrust and Competition Laws 12
Charitable Donations 60
Global Anti-Corruption and Bribery Laws 15
Corporate Social Responsibility 62
No Improper Payments 15
Gifts, Meals, and Entertainment 17 03 Oracle’s Relationships 63
Business Courtesies You May Extend 18 Oracle and Our Employees 64
Business Courtesies You May Receive 19
Immigration Laws 64
Engaging Government and Public Sector Employees and Officials 24 Diversity 65
Harassment 66
Government Contracting 24
Safety and Security 67
Government Procurement Integrity 25
Environment, Health, and Safety 67
Organizational Conflict of Interest (OCI) 26
Taxation 67
Post-Government Employment Restrictions 26
Lobbying of Government Officials 27 Oracle and Our Customers 68
Political Contributions 27
Oracle and Our Partners 69
Personal Political Activity 28
Oracle and Our Suppliers 70
Influencing Others 29
Trade Compliance Laws and Regulations 34 04 Enforcement 71
No Economic Boycotts 37
Investigation Process 72
Securities and Insider Trading 39
05 Related Policies and Websites 74
Intellectual Property 42
Protecting Confidential Information 44
06 Resources 77
Security Policies and Practices 45
Privacy Policies 45
Social Media 46
Table of Contents Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 2A Message from Our
Dear Colleagues:
Most Senior Leaders
As an Oracle employee, you are an influential part of an organization with a worldwide presence
and the confidence of shareholders, customers, partners, and governments across the globe.
We are leaders in our industry because we continuously strive to create and sell the best
products and services while championing ethical business values that go well beyond minimum
legal requirements.
Lawrence J. Ellison
Founder, Executive
The Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct defines and implements these core values
Chairman of the Board, and and is one of Oracle‘s most important documents. The Code sets forth key rules and provides
Chief Technology Officer links to policies and resources to help you understand Oracle‘s business values and your
responsibilities. You should read the Code carefully and in its entirety, and you should reference
it frequently as a guide to making the right decisions at Oracle.
We want to help you make decisions that always prioritize doing what’s right. Although the
Safra Catz
Code makes it easy for you to know your obligations, it cannot anticipate every ethical dilemma
Chief Executive Officer
you may face. You should seek guidance whenever the right course of action is not clear to you.
If you ever have questions, issues, or concerns, we ask that you speak with your manager, your
regional Compliance and Ethics Officer, the Chief Compliance Officer, your Human Resources
partner, or use our Integrity Helpline. Oracle prohibits retaliation against any employee who
raises a compliance issue or concern in good faith.
Our reputation and success depend upon the personal commitment that each of us makes to
understand and uphold Oracle’s values and to behave ethically in all of our business dealings.
All of us, regardless of employment level, position, or geographic location, are expected each
day to make the commitment to uphold the standards of business conduct in our Code. We
appreciate your support in continuing to make Oracle a great company.
Lawrence J. Ellison Safra Catz
A Message from Our Most Senior Leaders Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 3Code of Ethics
and Business Conduct
Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 4Our Core Values
Oracle’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (the “Oracle Code” or the “Code”) rests on and implements the core business
values that are essential to our success as a company. Our values are the foundation of all that we do; we all are expected
to live these values every day. Our modeling of these values drives our long-term success by sustaining a company that has
earned and deserves the confidence of shareholders, customers, governments, and partners around the world.
Our core values are
Integrity Communication
We are honest and choose the path of integrity in all We share information effectively with each other, but also
business transactions and dealings with others know how to protect the confidentiality of our information
Ethics Innovation
We act ethically in every business context We innovate and seek new and creative approaches to
problem solving
Compliance
We comply with all laws, regulations, and Oracle Customer Satisfaction
policies that govern our business and employees’ We treat customer satisfaction as a top priority
actions on behalf of the company
Quality
Mutual Respect We incorporate excellence and quality in our work and strive
We treat individuals with respect and dignity to continuously improve
Teamwork Fairness
We work together as a team to benefit Oracle We deal fairly with customers, suppliers, partners,
and colleagues
Our Core Values Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 5Our Code
The Oracle Code is a fundamental set of rules defining how we conduct our The Oracle Code applies to all personnel employed by or engaged to provide
business with the highest integrity and ethics. The Code, which applies to all services to Oracle, including, but not limited to, Oracle’s employees, officers,
Oracle entities, supplements and in many cases goes well beyond what is temporary employees, workers (including agency workers), casual staff, and
required to comply with laws and regulations. The Code has been prepared independent contractors (for ease of reference throughout this Code, all will
to help you succeed at work. Oracle’s continued success with shareholders, be referred to as “employees”). Employment by Oracle is subject to the terms
customers, governments, and partners around the world depends upon and conditions established by your local organization. As part of those terms
your understanding of and ability to follow the Code in all of your and conditions, you are also required to abide by the global standards set
business dealings. forth in this Code. If any part of this Code conflicts with local law, local law
must be followed.
From time to time, Oracle will revise the Code. When this happens, Oracle
will notify you and you will be responsible for making sure you understand On the other hand, if a local business practice conflicts with our Code, you
the new Code. For the most current version, always refer to the online Code must follow our Code. In those instances where Oracle’s Code is stricter
located on the Oracle Compliance and Ethics website. If you have questions than local law, you must follow our Code. If at any time, a part of the Code
on how to interpret or comply with the Code, Oracle policies, or applicable is determined under local law, by a competent government authority, to be
law, contact a member of the Oracle Compliance and Ethics team or the Oracle invalid, enforceability of its other provisions shall not be affected. Oracle may
Legal Department. interpret the Code at its sole discretion.
Only the Board of Directors can waive a provision of the Code. Any waiver and
the reason for the waiver will be promptly disclosed to Oracle’s stockholders.
Our Code Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 6Your Role
Employees
Oracle requires all employees to put compliance and ethics first. All employees must
“
Oracle’s success is built not only
Act ethically and with integrity in all business dealings
on the excellence of our products and
Know and follow the Code and Oracle policies, and comply with the law
services to customers but also on
Report all alleged, potential, or actual violations of Oracle’s Code, or policies or
”
the law using the available reporting channels
integrity and fair dealing.
Fully cooperate with compliance investigations, e.g., making your devices
Safra Catz
available for inspection (when legally permissible) and answering questions
CEO, Oracle
truthfully during an investigation
Complete all mandatory compliance education courses and other Oracle
Compliance and Ethics Program requirements in a timely manner
Watch the Video
Your Role | Employees Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 7Managers
Encourage employees to challenge and report questionable conduct
Managers at Oracle must be leaders in compliance and ethics. Managers must
serve as role models for understanding and explaining the rules and demonstrating Create an environment in which employees understand and believe that
integrity at all times. Managers must encourage the reporting of compliance issues they may raise and report compliance concerns without fear of retaliation
and create environments in which employees know they can and should raise
Managers should consider an employee’s completion of compliance
concerns without fear of retaliation. Managers must
trainings and ethical behavior and/or violations when determining whether
Learn the Code and use it to onboard new employees and explain to teams, on a to promote or affect the compensation of the employees they manage
routine basis, how it applies to their line of business
Managers that approve expenditures for meals, refreshments, or
Demonstrate through actions that you always choose integrity entertainment must use discretion and care to ensure that these events
are reasonable and modest in cost, not lavish or extravagant, justified by
Ensure that employees who report to you, either directly or indirectly, complete
a legitimate business purpose, and not offered improperly to influence the
all mandatory compliance education courses and other Oracle Compliance and
recipients’ business judgment
Ethics Program requirements in a timely manner
Ensure that employees who report to you, either directly or indirectly, understand
where and how to report compliance concerns
Maintain an open-door policy that encourages employees to ask questions,
including those related to business conduct and ethics
Your Role | Managers Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 8Speak Up
Code-Related Questions or Concerns Options for reporting concerns or allegations of misconduct include
Your manager
Oracle is committed to being a world-class company that enjoys the
Oracle Human Resources
confidence of thousands of entities and individuals around the globe. To
A member of the Legal team
continue to do so, we need to understand whether problems exist with our
personnel, business, or operations so that we can resolve issues promptly, Your Regional Compliance and Ethics Officer
take corrective action, or make needed improvements. We provide multiple
The Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer
resources for reporting allegations of misconduct, which Oracle will review or
Your employee representative (where applicable)
investigate as appropriate and, if justified, implement disciplinary actions or
other remedies. As an Oracle employee, you are expected to report promptly The Oracle Integrity Helpline
any conduct that you believe in good faith may be a violation of the Code, as
well as any other activities indicating a lack of compliance with Oracle’s or If you wish to remain anonymous, feel uncomfortable reporting a concern
our employees’ legal or ethical obligations. Oracle will not tolerate retaliation to your manager, Oracle Human Resources, a member of the Legal team, a
against any employee who reports a concern in good faith or cooperates with member of the Oracle Compliance and Ethics team, or feel that your concern
a compliance investigation, even when allegations are not substantiated. has not been addressed properly, you should call the Oracle Integrity Helpline.
The Helpline is operated by a third-party service provider and it allows for
a report to be made online or by telephone. The helpline is confidential
and available to all Oracle employees to raise concerns or to seek guidance
regarding ethics and business conduct issues.
Speak Up Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 9The Helpline is toll-free for all employees and is available 24 hours a day, When you report incidents through the Helpline via phone, an operator will
seven days a week. The helpline provides interpreters for callers who want to ask questions to obtain the details of your concerns and will document the
communicate in languages other than English. call. You will receive a report number, which you can use later to add details
or to check the status of your report. You should provide as much detail as
To submit a telephone report, call the Helpline at 800-679-7417. To submit possible when raising a concern, including the parties involved, relevant
a report regarding a facility or employee based in the European Union, call dates, and specific conduct at issue. Due to confidentiality and other reasons,
the EU Helpline at 866-455-1215. For either number, callers from outside Oracle generally does not disclose the specifics of any internal investigation,
the United States should first dial their country’s access number and, when but you may be able to contact the Helpline to learn whether an investigation
prompted, enter the appropriate helpline telephone number. has been closed.
The Integrity Helpline does not record or trace calls or use any identity All reports are handled in accordance with Oracle’s Internal Privacy Policy,
tracking technology. You may remain anonymous where permitted by which is available on the Oracle Legal Department website.
local law, whether you call the Helpline or make the report online. Certain
jurisdictions limit topics that may be reported anonymously through the
Helpline. Oracle’s processes allow for any local limitations and are set up to
alert employees if and when special rules apply to them.
USA Helpline: 800-679-7417
EU Helpline: 866-455-1215
Speak Up Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 10Code Rules
Code Rules Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 11Antitrust and Competition Laws
Typically, the countries in which Oracle operates have laws and regulations that prohibit unlawful restraint of
trade, usually referred to as antitrust or competition laws. These laws are designed to protect consumers and
markets against unfair business practices and to promote and protect healthy competition. Oracle commits to
observing applicable antitrust and competition laws around the world.
Antitrust or competition laws vary from country to country, but generally, these laws prohibit agreements or
actions that reduce competition without benefiting consumers. Among those activities generally found to violate
antitrust or competition laws are agreements or understandings among competitors that
Fix or control prices, including a reseller’s prices to its customers
Structure or orchestrate bids to direct a contract to a certain competitor or reseller or anti-competitively
influence pricing (bid rigging)
Boycott suppliers or customers
Divide or allocate markets or customers
Limit the production or sale of products or product lines for anti-competitive purposes
Code Rules | Antitrust and Competition Laws Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 12Agreements like those listed above are against public policy and Oracle policy. Oracle has developed a substantial partner network through which we extend
We must never engage in discussions of such matters with representatives our reach to industry sectors and customers around the world. Oracle is
of other companies, including Oracle partners. You should promptly report committed to ensuring that our partners comply with all applicable laws.
to the Oracle Legal Department any instance in which employees or third To support this objective, Oracle conducts enhanced reviews of certain
parties initiate such discussions. Contracts or other arrangements that involve transactions in select geographies and may obtain end-user documentation
exclusive dealing, tie-in sales, price discrimination, or other terms of sale and information necessary for anti-bribery compliance purposes while fully
may be unlawful under applicable antitrust or competition laws. You should respecting antitrust laws. Only authorized non-sales personnel, who are
not enter into such arrangements without the approval of the Oracle Legal obligated to protect the information from further unauthorized disclosure, may
Department. Requests for the issuance of exclusivity certificates or employee collect and access such documents and information.
involvement in drafting public tender bidding documents are generally
prohibited and should also be raised to Oracle Legal for further review Antitrust and competition laws are complex; please seek advice from the
and approval. Oracle Legal Department on any related questions.
Oracle also strives to ensure that our global practices comply with United
States antitrust laws. In addition to local laws, antitrust laws of the United
States apply to our international business operations and transactions,
including imports to and exports from the United States.
Code Rules | Antitrust and Competition Laws Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 13Real World Questions and Answers:
Antitrust and Competition Laws
1 Q: At a trade association meeting, you overhear an informal group of
Oracle competitors discussing future product pricing. May you join in the
conversation to gain some excellent competitive intelligence?
A: No. Oracle competes honestly and fairly. You must avoid all
discussions and the exchange of information with competitors involving
topics such as pricing, supplier or customer relationships, or market
allocation because they are illegal. Disassociate yourself from any such
discussions immediately and report the incident to the Oracle Legal
Department.
2 Q: A partner with which you frequently interact approaches you
regarding an upcoming bid process where three competitive bids are
required and asks if you would consider submitting a “courtesy bid” to
reach the required number. Can you offer up a bid to help the partner
out?
A: No. Oracle’s partners are also frequently our competitors and in no
circumstances should Oracle employees be engaged in manipulating
the outcome of bid processes by coordinating with competing bidders.
Prohibited behavior includes rotating bids or submitting noncompetitive
bids to benefit another competitor. Disassociate yourself from any such
discussions immediately and report the incident to the Oracle
Legal Department.
Code Rules | Antitrust and Competition Laws | Questions and Answers Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 14Global Anti-Corruption and Bribery Laws
Oracle believes in doing business honestly and is committed to transparency Penalties for violating these laws are severe and can include prison time and
in our business practices. We have no tolerance for corruption and bribery in large fines for you personally.
connection with our business. You must comply with anti-corruption laws,
such as the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the UK Bribery Act, in The above prohibition is applicable to
all countries in which we do business.
Government and public sector, which include public utilities, higher
education, public healthcare entities, and public international organizations
Oracle is also committed to ensuring that our partners comply with all
and their employees or officials
applicable laws, including anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. To support
this objective, Oracle conducts enhanced reviews of certain transactions in Political parties or candidates for political office
select geographies and may obtain end-user documentation and information
Business entities partially or wholly owned or controlled by government
necessary for anti-bribery compliance purposes while fully respecting antitrust
interests (often referred to as state-owned enterprises) and their
laws. Only authorized non-sales personnel, who are obligated to protect the
employees or officials
information from further unauthorized disclosure, may collect and access such
Privately-held commercial companies and their employees
documents and information.
O racle employees
No Improper Payments
Any other third party
We do not offer or pay bribes. You are prohibited from offering, promising, Additionally, Oracle prohibits all forms of money laundering, which involves
authorizing, directing, paying, making, or receiving any bribes, kickbacks, or disguising or channeling unlawfully obtained money, or transforming such
payments of money or anything of value (directly or indirectly) to improperly money into legitimate funds.
obtain business or any other advantage for Oracle or yourself. The FCPA and
other similar international anti-corruption laws outlaw bribery.
Code Rules | Global Anti-Corruption and Bribery Laws Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 15Oracle prohibits giving money or anything of value directly or indirectly to a government official
or employee of a state-owned enterprise, or to the spouse, significant other, child, or other relative
of any such person, for the purpose of influencing or rewarding an action or decision of the
government or public sector employee or official or to gain any improper advantage for Oracle.
“Anything of value” is intended to be broad and covers not only money, but also gifts, lavish or
excessive entertainment, funding of personal travel such as sightseeing, contributions to charity,
and employment opportunities. Oracle also prohibits facilitation or facilitating payments, which are
payments to an official to speed up or expedite routine government actions, including processing
and approving applications and permits.
For more information, refer to Oracle’s Global Anti-Corruption Policy and Business Courtesy
Guidelines (the “Anti-Corruption Policy”) and the Supplemental Policy on Dealing with
Government located on the Compliance and Ethics website.
Code Rules | Global Anti-Corruption and Bribery Laws Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 16Gifts, Meals, and Entertainment
Oracle can pay for bona fide business expenses and certain gifts for third parties, but only if done
without corrupt intent and according to Oracle’s Anti-Corruption Policy. Oracle’s Anti-Corruption
Policy provides specific guidelines to ensure that you comply with applicable anti-corruption laws,
including the FCPA and UK Bribery Act.
Government entities and state-owned enterprises generally are governed by strict laws and
regulations concerning the ability of their employees to accept entertainment, meals, gifts,
gratuities, and other things of value from companies such as Oracle. In dealing with employees
of these entities, it is Oracle‘s general policy that nothing of value will be given. Limited
exceptions that may apply are covered in the Anti-Corruption Policy and the Supplemental
Policy on Government Contracting and Dealing with Government Officials and Employees. Refer
to the “Business Courtesies You May Extend” section of this Code for information regarding
nongovernment entities. If you have any questions, contact a member of the Compliance and
Ethics team.
Code Rules | Global Anti-Corruption and Bribery Laws Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 17Business Courtesies You May Extend
Furnishing meals, refreshments, entertainment, and event access in conjunction Oracle‘s standards and the applicable laws for dealing with government
with business discussions with nongovernment personnel may be appropriate as employees and employees of state-owned enterprises are more stringent than
long as the offering of such courtesies does not violate any policies of the recipient‘s standards for private sector company employees. In dealing with government
organization, any contractual agreement with a customer, Oracle’s Global Travel employees and officials, it is our general policy that nothing of value will be
and Expense Policy, or the Anti-Corruption Policy. You are responsible for given to such individuals. Limited exceptions that may apply are covered in the
familiarizing yourself with any such standards, agreements, and policies and for Anti-Corruption Policy and the Supplemental Policy on Government Contracting
complying with them. and Dealing with Government Employees and Officials. You are responsible for
being familiar with the rules and regulations of the government entities with
Oracle prohibits giving anything of value (including charitable donations or which you interact. Contact Compliance and Ethics if you have any questions
sponsorship of events), directly or indirectly, to any private individual, firm, or entity about your activities and interactions with the government.
as a means of improperly inducing business.
In any case, business courtesies must be small enough not to appear to
Employees who seek or approve expenditures for meals, refreshments, or influence the judgment of the recipient, secure unfair preferential treatment,
entertainment must use discretion and care to ensure that these events are or gain an improper advantage. A final test of appropriate business courtesies,
reasonable and modest in cost, not lavish or extravagant, justified by a legitimate even if allowed under the law, is whether public disclosure would be
business purpose, and not offered improperly to influence the recipients’ embarrassing to Oracle or the recipient.
business judgment.
Code Rules | Global Anti-Corruption and Bribery Laws Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 18Business Courtesies You May Receive
You may accept unsolicited gifts or other business courtesies from actual or potential You may accept occasional meals, refreshments, or other entertainment
customers, suppliers, or other business partners provided they are reasonable appropriate to the circumstances in connection with normal business
and modest in nature and amount, are justified by a clear and legitimate business discussions. Again, it is inappropriate to accept such favors if they are
purpose, or are not given to influence a business decision. Furthermore, accepting offered solely to influence your business decision. If an individual or firm
these courtesies should not impose a sense of obligation or give rise to the doing or seeking business with Oracle offers you entertainment that is more
expectation that another party will receive anything in return. It is never appropriate than modest, routine, or outside of the guidelines provided in Oracle’s Anti-
to solicit these courtesies, either directly or indirectly. Before accepting a gift or Corruption Policy and Business Courtesies Guidelines, you must obtain
other business courtesy, you must also confirm that doing so is permitted under written approval. Refer to the Anti-Corruption Policy, and Business Courtesies
local laws. Many countries impose limitations on gifts that may be exchanged, even Guidelines to understand the processes and approvals required prior to
among employees of private sector companies. Contact Compliance and Ethics for accepting such entertainment. We are all personally responsible for ensuring
information about laws in specific countries. that acceptance of any business courtesy, gift, or entertainment is proper and
does not reasonably appear to be an attempt to secure favorable treatment.
Oracle recognizes that in some parts of the world gift giving is a common,
accepted practice and that refusing a gift could reflect poorly on Oracle. Even in those
instances, however, you must comply with this Code, Oracle’s Anti-Corruption Policy
and all relevant local laws. Please refer to Oracle’s Anti-Corruption Policy
for additional information, including circumstances under which written approval
is required.
Code Rules | Global Anti-Corruption and Bribery Laws Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 19Real World Questions and Answers:
Global Anti-Corruption and Bribery Laws—No Improper Payment
1 Q: An Oracle partner agrees to use a portion of an extra discount I seek in 3 Q: A government “consultant” offers to assist an Oracle salesperson to
order to send procurement employees from the government customer on secure an important government deal in exchange for a success fee of 10
an international sightseeing trip. May I seek the discount? percent of the value of the government contract. Can the employee agree
A: No. It would not be a proper use of Oracle’s funds to pay for this trip. to this payment?
It is equally improper for a partner to do so using “margin” created A: No. Oracle employees are prohibited from offering or giving money
through a discount. Depending on the trip, the participants, and whether or anything of value to government or public sector employees or
Oracle retained or obtained business as a result of the trip, the conduct officials either directly or indirectly through third parties. This prohibition
could be viewed as a bribe punishable both criminally and civilly for the generally includes the use of success fees or utilizing unapproved or
companies and the individuals involved. ad hoc consultants. You should consult Compliance and Ethics before
you hire any third-party sales consultants to obtain, procure, or close
2 Q: An Oracle partner offers me a percentage of the partner’s margin in government deals.
exchange for encouraging a major customer to purchase the partner’s
services and products. Can I accept such a payment?
A: No. This is a kickback, which is prohibited by Oracle’s Code of
Conduct, Anti-Corruption Policy, and local and international law. The
Code of Conduct and the Anti-Corruption Policy apply to dealings with
both public and private entities.
Code Rules | Global Anti-Corruption and Bribery Laws | Questions and Answers | 20Real World Questions and Answers:
Global Anti-Corruption and Bribery Laws—Gifts, Meals, and Entertainment
1 Q: A high-level group of government officials is making a goodwill tour
of Oracle facilities. During their visit, I wish to give them a memento
with an Oracle logo, such as a coffee cup, pen, t-shirt, etc. Is this against
Oracle policy?
A: It depends on the value and whether or not other mementos have
been given to this customer within the year. Oracle policy prohibits
giving anything of value to government officials unless applicable law
and Oracle policy permit it. Please refer to the “Business Courtesies
You May Extend” sections of both this Code and Oracle’s
Anti-Corruption Policy and consult with Compliance and Ethics to
determine the proper conduct.
2 Q: I want to invite the Provost of a public university to have dinner to
discuss how Oracle technologies can help the university. Can I buy
him dinner?
A: It depends on the value and whether or not other things of value have
been given to this potential customer within the year. Public university
employees are government employees and Oracle policy prohibits giving
anything of value to government employees unless applicable law and
Oracle policy permit it. Please refer to the “Business Courtesies You May
Extend” sections of both this Code and Oracle’s Ant-Corruption Policy
and consult with Compliance and Ethics to determine the
proper conduct.
Code Rules | Global Anti-Corruption and Bribery Laws | Questions and Answers Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 21Real World Questions and Answers:
Global Anti-Corruption and Bribery Laws—Business Courtesies You May Extend
1 Q: You plan to invite a private sector customer to sit on a panel at a 2 Q: A large private sector deal has been on the brink of closing for weeks,
three-day event to describe the use of Oracle technology in his business but the customer is still negotiating a couple of major deal points. As
and to respond to questions from prospects and other customers in quarter-end approaches, you would like to invite the customer’s entire
the audience. The panel is on the agenda on the second day of the negotiating team to dinner at the best restaurant in town, complete with
conference. May you offer hotel accommodations for all three days of the several bottles of expensive wine, to finalize discussions and “seal the
conference? deal.” Is this appropriate?
A: Maybe. You may offer the customer hotel accommodations for all A: No. An observer might reasonably conclude that a lavish meal for
three days of the conference if: (a) The customer will attend all three the customer’s entire deal team on the eve of closing was intended
days of the conference; (b) The entire conference is dedicated to the to influence the team’s negotiating position, a violation of the Anti-
promotion, demonstration, and/or explanation of Oracle products Corruption Policy. If you wish to entertain a customer during a deal
and services; (c) The business courtesy otherwise conforms with the negotiation, you need to obtain advance approval.
mandatory requirements set forth in bold type under the heading
“Business Courtesies You May Extend” above; and (d) You will need to 3 Q: A customer requests tickets to a basketball playoff game for herself
refer to the Anti-Corruption Policy, and Business Courtesies Guidelines and her family. We are in tense negotiations, so I would like to provide
for specific approval processes and requirements. them to her. Can I do so?
A: Customers should not solicit gifts or entertainment from Oracle. If
you have been asked for this and would like to explore accommodating
your customer, please contact the Oracle Compliance and Ethics team to
determine what, if anything, you may offer.
Code Rules | Global Anti-Corruption and Bribery Laws | Questions and Answers Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 22Real World Questions and Answers:
Global Anti-Corruption and Bribery Laws—Business Courtesies You May Receive
1 Q: May I accept travel expenses to attend or speak to a user group or 3 Q: It is the holiday season and I have just received a gift certificate
professional meeting? from a vendor, at my home, worth the equivalent of US$500 for a local
A: It depends. Oracle policy requires that all suppliers be treated fairly department store. May I keep the gift certificate?
and impartially. Therefore, you should accept nothing from a supplier A: No. You may receive only gifts that are not of material value. If you
that could give even the appearance of favoritism. However, you can receive a gift exceeding the threshold limits that are spelled out in the
more readily accept reimbursement for expenses from associations Anti-Corruption Policy, you will need to obtain approval from the Oracle
and professional groups because such organizations are generally not Compliance and Ethics team.
comprised of vendors who might be using a speaking invitation as a
device to secure favorable treatment. In any case, written approval from 4 Q: A partner recently helped my sales team close a significant
your senior vice president and regional Compliance and Ethics Officer is transaction. May I suggest that the partner host a dinner or an event for
required. Oracle and the partner’s team to celebrate?
A: No. It is never appropriate to solicit such entertainment.
2 Q: If a representative of a supplier, vendor, or customer presents me with
a pen and pencil set with the supplier‘s logo as a token of appreciation, 5 Q: I have a long standing customer that has access to tickets to the
may I accept it? PGA golf tournament in my area. There will be a lot of opportunities to
A: Yes. As long as the item is not of a material value and is widely make contacts for potential business at the tournament. Can I ask my
available to others under similar circumstances, you may keep it for your customer to provide me with one ticket?
personal use. If the item does not meet these criteria and if you have not A: No. It is never appropriate to request gifts, meals or entertainment
otherwise received the required approval, politely return it to the donor. or anything of value from suppliers, customers, partners, or potential
customers, partners or suppliers.
Code Rules | Global Anti-Corruption and Bribery Laws | Questions and Answers Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 23Engaging Government and
Public Sector Employees and Officials
Government Contracting If you deal with government or public sector employees and officials, you are
required to complete the Dealing with Government: Government Contracts
and Political Compliance training course. Both the supplemental policy
Oracle strictly observes the laws, rules, and regulations that govern the
and the training course are located on the Compliance and Ethics website.
acquisition of goods and services and the performance of government
contracts by governmental entities. Activities that may be appropriate
when dealing with nongovernment customers may be improper and even
illegal when dealing with government. The penalties for failing to follow
government procurement laws are severe and include substantial civil and
criminal fines, imprisonment, and debarment of Oracle from doing business
with the government. Oracle employees who deal with any government
agency, including international organizations, are responsible for learning
and complying with all rules that apply to government contracting and
interactions with government officials and employees, including the rules in
Oracle’s Supplemental Policy on Government Contracting and Dealing with
Government Officials and Employees.
Code Rules | Engaging Government and Public Sector Employees and Officials Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 24Government Procurement Integrity
Our commitment to comply with government procurement rules extends to
how we acquire relevant information. You must not attempt to obtain from
any source
Procurement-sensitive government information
Confidential internal government information, such as pre-award, source
selection information
Proprietary information of a competitor including, for example, bid or
proposal information, during the course of a procurement or in any
other circumstances where there is reason to believe the release of such
information is unauthorized
If such information is inadvertently communicated to you by another vendor,
a consultant, or a government employee, you should promptly contact the
Oracle Legal Department.
Code Rules | Engaging Government and Public Sector Employees and Officials Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 25Organizational Conflict of Interest (OCI)
You must ensure that when performing government contracts there is no
actual or potential organizational conflict of interest (OCI) that would provide
Oracle unequal access to nonpublic information, provide an unfair advantage
in a competitive procurement, or impair your objectivity in providing
assistance or advice to the government or in performing contract work for the
government. All actual or potential OCIs must be disclosed by consulting the
Oracle Legal Department.
Post-Government Employment Restrictions
Various laws impose requirements and restrictions on government employees
related to post-government employment in the private sector. These laws
restrict the former government employee’s activities after he or she leaves
the government and accepts employment with a private company. Before
engaging in any discussions related to possible employment or entering into
a business opportunity with a current or former government employee, you
must obtain the appropriate approvals by consulting the Oracle
Legal Department.
Code Rules | Engaging Government and Public Sector Employees and Officials | 26Lobbying of Government Officials Political Contributions
Our interactions with the government are generally governed by lobbying laws and Oracle takes seriously our obligation to comply with the laws relating to political
regulations. Lobbying is any activity that attempts to influence laws, regulations, contributions. These laws vary greatly among jurisdictions and countries. All
policies, and rules, but in certain jurisdictions can also cover sales and business political contributions made by Oracle, including attendance, participation,
development activity. These laws can apply to elected officials, as well as appointed and/or sponsorship of political candidates, parties, campaigns, and related
officials and government employees. The company may have an obligation to events must be approved in advance by Oracle’s Government Affairs and
register and/or report the company’s lobbying activities under applicable law, the Oracle Legal Department. In addition, in many instances corporations are
including activities by employees and outside consultants or advisors ongovernment prohibited from giving to political campaigns. Some campaign laws interpret
relations. You are responsible for knowing when your activity or the activity of any use of corporate resources (such as equipment, email, stationery, or personnel)
third party you engage with on government matters for Oracle may be considered as corporate donations. You should obtain approval from the Oracle Legal
lobbying, and should consult the Oracle Legal Department for guidance. For more Department before using any company resources for political campaigns or
information, please see the Supplemental Policy on Government Contracting fundraising. For more information on Oracle’s political activities policy in North
and Dealing with Government Officials and Employees, and the Elected Officials, America, see the Supplemental Policy on Government Contracting and Dealing
Legislation and Public Policy Approval Process, which are both located on the with Government Officials and Employees, located on the Compliance and
Compliance and Ethics website. Ethics website.
Code Rules | Engaging Government and Public Sector Employees and Officials Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 27Personal Political Activity Guidelines regarding personal political activity:
Your personal contributions to a candidate for elective office or a political
Oracle encourages its employees to participate personally in civic affairs and the party must not be—or appear to be—made with, reimbursed from, or
political process. To do so, you must facilitated by the company’s funds or assets.
Make all personal political contributions with your own money You will not be paid by Oracle for any time spent running for public office,
serving as an elected official, campaigning for a political candidate, or
Conduct any personal political activities on your own personal time
attending political fundraisers unless required by law and/or approved by
Conduct all personal political activities in accordance with applicable laws
the Oracle Legal Department.
Comply with Oracle policies
You can take reasonable time off without pay for personal political
activities, if your Oracle duties permit and it is approved by your manager
in accordance with current Oracle Human Resources policies. You also may
use vacation time for your personal political activity.
You may not use or permit any campaign, candidate, or political party to use
any company facility or property, including a company trademark, without
written approval from Oracle’s Government Affairs and the
Legal Department.
You should make clear that your political activities reflect your own personal
views. Any overt, visible, and partisan political activity that could cause
someone to believe that your actions reflect the views or position of Oracle
requires prior approval of Oracle’s Government Affairs and the Oracle
Legal Department.
Code Rules | Engaging Government and Public Sector Employees and Officials Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 28Influencing Others
In certain instances, Oracle may encourage employees to support or oppose legislative issues that
affect the company’s business. However, in no instance may you use your position of authority to
make another employee feel compelled or pressured to
Work for or on behalf of any legislation, candidate, political party, or committee
Make contributions for any political purpose
Support candidates or certain political causes
Cast a vote one way or another
In the United States, the Federal Election Campaign Act (FECA) allows the company to establish
a political action committee. Oracle established the Oracle Political Action Committee (Oracle
PAC) to enable employees to pool personal funds to support candidates for federal, state, and
local offices. Oracle PAC fundraising must comply with all applicable laws and must be directed
to only those employees eligible to contribute. Contributions to Oracle PAC are voluntary. Oracle
PAC fundraising may not be conducted in a coercive manner and all Oracle PAC fundraising
communications must clearly include a statement that contributions are voluntary and that
employees will not be favored or disadvantaged in their employment by reason of the amount of
any contribution or any decision not to contribute. An employee‘s participation in Oracle PAC is
kept confidential by Oracle PAC‘s administrator, except as required by law.
Code Rules | Engaging Government and Public Sector Employees and Officials Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 29Real World Questions and Answers: Real World Questions and Answers:
Engaging Government and Public Sector Engaging Government and Public Sector
Employees and Officials—Government Employees and Officials—Government
Contracting Procurement Integrity
1 Q: Are regulations regarding government employee interaction 1 Q: Is it permissible for an Oracle employee or independent contractor to obtain
with private contractors, such as Oracle, the same for all information on the prices a competitor plans to bid or has bid on a government
government agencies? procurement?
A: No. Regulations vary depending on the government agency. Because these A: No. It is not permissible for Oracle to obtain any information that another party
regulations vary so greatly, seek advice from the Oracle Legal Department if you are considers proprietary or confidential regarding competitive procurement, including
uncertain about the applicable regulations. information about pricing. However, Oracle may consider information about a
competitor’s prices that we obtained from publicly available sources.
2 Q: One of our government contracts requires us to perform a test that seems to
duplicate part of another test we must perform during a later stage of production. It
is clearly a waste of time and money. Must we continue performing the extra test?
A: Yes. Because the contract requires that we perform both tests, no change in
testing requirements or quality controls should be made without first informing
and obtaining the approval of the appropriate level of management, as well as the
approval of a contracting officer. To knowingly deliver a product to the government
that does not meet the contract specifications, without specific prior approval from
the customer for any change in specification, could be considered fraud and a
violation of law.
Code Rules | Engaging Government and Public Sector Employees and Officials | Questions and Answers Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 30Real World Questions and Answers: Real World Questions and Answers:
Engaging Government and Public Sector Engaging Government and Public Sector
Employees and Officials—Organizational Employees and Officials—Post-Government
Conflict of Interest (OCI) Employment Restrictions
1 Q: An employee of a government customer has asked me to help him develop a 1 Q: You are considering hiring a former US government engineer to work at Oracle.
specification to be included in a Request for Proposal. May I help him do this? She is very qualified for the position. May you hire this engineer?
A: No. You should not perform this type of work unless you have obtained approval A: It depends. United States law imposes several restrictions on Oracle’s ability
from the Oracle Legal Department and other appropriate internal approvals. to hire US government employees. State and local laws may impose similar
restrictions. Before even speaking with any government employee about
employment opportunities at Oracle, consult with the Oracle Legal Department to
ensure compliance with applicable laws.
Code Rules | Engaging Government and Public Sector Employees and Officials | Questions and Answers Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 31Real World Questions and Answers: Real World Questions and Answers:
Engaging Government and Public Sector Engaging Government and Public Sector
Employees and Officials—Lobbying of Employees and Officials—Personal Political
Government Officials Activity
1 Q: A customer has asked me to join him at a fundraising dinner for an elected 1 Q: I am working on a political campaign and need to attend an out-of-town
official. May I attend and expense the ticket cost to Oracle? fundraiser during work hours. May I go if I get my manager’s permission?
A: It depends. Sales activity should be kept separate from any political activity. In A: Yes. However, the day off may not be charged to Oracle. You’ll have to use
addition, donations—including attendance at political fundraisers—are never to vacation or unpaid time off to attend this event.
be expensed. Rather, for an activity that has been approved by the Oracle Legal
Department, you must submit a check request.
Code Rules | Engaging Government and Public Sector Employees and Officials | Questions and Answers Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 32Real World Questions and Answers:
Engaging Government and Public Sector
Employees and Officials—Influencing Others
1 Q: My manager asked me to make a contribution to her daughter’s
campaign for city council. Is that appropriate?
A: No. Even if your manager is not pressuring you, the request is
inappropriate. An Oracle sponsored event is okay, but managers should
never solicit donations for personal charitable causes or personal
sponsorships from employees that are in their reporting chain. If you are
not comfortable speaking to your manager about this, you should speak
with his or her manager, Oracle Human Resources, or your regional
Oracle Compliance and Ethics officer. You may also report your concern
to the Oracle Integrity Helpline.
Code Rules | Engaging Government and Public Sector Employees and Officials | Questions and Answers | 33Trade Compliance Laws and Regulations
Oracle is committed to complying with all applicable global export, import, US trade compliance laws and regulations govern all exports and imports
and economic sanctions, laws, and regulations. Compliance with global of commodities and technical data into and from the United States,
trade laws and regulations protects Oracle’s ability to conduct international which include
business. Failure to do so can result in disciplinary action for the company,
Physical items (hardware, laptops, software media, and the like)
serious supply chain disruptions, loss of sale and service opportunities,
Electronic or physical distribution of software and source code
monetary penalties, fines and imprisonment for individual employees and
their management chain, and the potential revocation of our trade privileges. Written, electronic, or oral disclosure of technical data to a visitor outside
You are responsible for understanding how trade compliance laws and of the United States or H1-B Visa worker whether it occurs within the US
regulations apply to your job, and strict adherence to these laws is required. or abroad
Any oral or written disclosure of technical data to a visitor from outside of the
United States must comply with the same export control restrictions that are
applicable to the physical export of such data.
You may not ship Oracle commodities, including but not limited to hardware,
software, documentation, source code, technical data, or technology, without
processing the transaction through authorized Oracle order entry, distribution,
export request, and support processes and/or through authorized Oracle
subsidiary channels.
Code Rules | Trade Compliance Laws and Regulations Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 34As part of Oracle’s Global Trade Compliance program, Oracle maintains an
International Traffic in Arms Regulation (ITAR) Compliance Policy to ensure
all Oracle transactions involving the export or re-export of US-origin defense
articles, defense services, and related technical data comply with the ITAR
policy. The policy also establishes standards and procedures to ensure no
transfer of covered defense articles, defense services, and related technical data
takes place beyond what is authorized by the ITAR or by the terms of any export
license or other approval granted by the US Department of State, Directorate of
Defense Trade Controls.
Questions concerning trade compliance matters or any potential violation of
these laws or regulations should be directed to Oracle Global Trade Compliance.
Additional information may be found on the Global Trade Compliance website.
Code Rules | Trade Compliance Laws and Regulations Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 35Real World Questions and Answers:
Trade Compliance Laws and Regulations
1 Q: I understand that there are restrictions on the export of certain
strategic goods and technical data unless an appropriate export license
is obtained. Are there any such restrictions on disclosing technical
information to foreign nationals visiting Oracle in the US? After all, the
information isn’t really crossing any border.
A: Yes. Any oral or written disclosure of technical data to a foreign visitor
must comply with the same export control restrictions that apply to the
physical export of such data.
2 Q: Is it true that software must physically leave a country‘s border for an
export to have taken place?
A: No. An export can take place at any location when technical data or
software is made available to anyone who is a foreign national. You
must obtain proper export authorization before sharing technical data or
software in any manner with a foreign national.
Code Rules | Trade Compliance Laws and Regulations | Questions and Answers Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 36No Economic Boycotts
Oracle does not participate in any economic boycott not sanctioned by the
United States government. Oracle and our employees are prohibited from
discriminating against or refusing to do business with a country, its nationals,
or companies that are the object of an unsanctioned boycott.
Additionally, Oracle and our employees may not furnish information
concerning Oracle’s or any other person’s business relationships with
a boycotted country or blacklisted company. If requested to supply any
information, take any action, or refrain from taking any action to further or
support a boycott of a country, you must immediately contact the Oracle
Legal Department. For further information on identifying and handling boycott
requests, please refer to Oracle’s Foreign Economic Boycott Policy, which
is available on the Compliance and Ethics website. This policy is intended
to ensure that we comply with foreign economic boycott laws of the United
States. Address questions or requests for information regarding
Foreign Economic Boycott Policy or anti-boycott laws to the Oracle
Legal Department.
Code Rules | No Economic Boycott Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 37Real World Questions and Answers:
No Economic Boycotts
1 Q: Oracle received an order from a company in a country that has
imposed a government-sponsored economic boycott not sanctioned
by the US government. The customer’s purchase order states that the
supplier (in this case Oracle) agrees not to conduct business with a
blacklisted company or country. May the order be accepted?
A: No. Accepting this order may subject Oracle to criminal and tax
sanctions. Oracle complies with anti-boycott provisions of US law. The
division receiving this request should immediately seek Oracle Legal and
Corporate Tax Department advice on how to proceed.
Code Rules | No Economic Boycott | Questions and Answers Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 38Securities and Insider Trading
Oracle expects you to comply with applicable insider trading and securities Under Oracle’s Insider Trading Policy, if you possess material, nonpublic
laws. Oracle maintains an insider trading policy, which is applicable to all information (also referred to as “inside information”) gained through your
employees worldwide, non-employee directors, and the immediate family work at Oracle, you may not trade in Oracle securities or the securities of
members of employees and directors. The Insider Trading Policy, which is another company to which the information pertains. You also may not pass
available on the Oracle Legal Department website, sets forth your obligations on to others (for example, a “tip”) material, nonpublic information. These
under the law and as required by Oracle, regarding trading in the securities of restrictions also apply to your immediate family members.
Oracle and other companies. You are expected to understand the policy and
comply with it. Material information is any information that a reasonable investor would
consider important in a decision to buy, hold, or sell securities. It includes
If you trade in Oracle securities or the securities of any other company any information that could reasonably be expected to cause a change in the
trading on a United States stock exchange, you are subject to United States price of securities of Oracle or the securities of another company to which the
securities laws, as well as any other securities or insider trading laws that information relates.
may apply to you locally, including Oracle’s Insider Trading Policy. Failure to
comply with insider trading and securities laws may result in substantial civil
and criminal penalties.
Code Rules | Securities and Insider Trading Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 39Examples of Material information Nonpublic information (or inside information) is material information that
is not available to the general public. It is typically made public through the
Financial performance and operating metrics (especially quarterly and
issuance of a press release or a filing with the US Securities and Exchange
year-end earnings) or significant changes in financial performance,
Commission. Generally, you must refrain from trading from the time you
operating metrics, or liquidity (including forecasts)
become aware of inside information through the first full trading day after
Potential or ongoing major mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures,
Oracle has made the information public.
divestitures, or other strategic transactions
Award or cancellation of a major contract or strategic partnership Securities include common stock, bonds, employee stock options, futures,
derivatives, and other financial instruments. See Oracle’s Insider Trading
Key management changes
Policy for more information regarding how the policy applies to stock options,
Changes in dividend or stock repurchase programs, offerings of securities,
restricted stock units, and the Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
or credit transactions
Changes in auditors, knowledge of a qualification in an auditor’s opinion Oracle has established quarterly “no trading” periods for certain groups of
or report, or any change in the ability to rely on prior auditor reports Oracle employees and non-employee directors. In addition, individuals with
knowledge of proposed strategic transactions must obtain preclearance prior
Actual or threatened significant litigation or investigations
to trading Oracle securities. All employees and non-employee directors are
Gain or loss of a substantial customer or supplier
prohibited from engaging in speculative transactions in Oracle securities.
Please refer to the Insider Trading Policy for details on these restrictions. If
you have any questions about compliance with insider trading laws or Oracle’s
Insider Trading Policy, you should consult with the Oracle Legal Department.
Code Rules | Securities and Insider Trading Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 40Real World Questions and Answers:
Securities and Insider Trading
1 Q: I have become aware that we will likely exceed our quarterly revenue
guidance estimates, but we have not yet made a public announcement. I
stand to make a lot of money once this gets out. May I buy more shares
of Oracle stock?
A: No. What you are considering is insider trading. This is a violation of
Oracle policy and a violation of applicable insider trading and securities
laws. You may buy or sell Oracle stock only after such an announcement
is made public and after a period of time has elapsed to allow the
financial markets to absorb this information. Consult Oracle’s Insider
Trading Policy for detailed guidelines.
Code Rules | Securities and Insider Trading | Questions and Answers Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 41Intellectual Property
Besides our people, Oracle‘s most important assets are its intellectual property We also respect the intellectual property of others. Oracle will provide
rights, which include any software necessary for you to perform your functions adequately
under appropriate licensing agreements with vendors. It is against Oracle
Copyrights
policy to use, copy, display, or distribute third-party copyrighted software,
Patents
documentation, or other materials without permission or approval from
Trademarks
Oracle’s Legal Department. For example, you may not post another entity’s
T rade secrets
copyrighted content to any internal or external website or other electronic
forum without first obtaining the necessary approvals. You are not permitted
We are each responsible for protecting Oracle‘s intellectual property rights
to use or copy software or documentation except to the extent that applicable
by complying with Oracle‘s policies and procedures for their protection.
license agreements allow.
Maintaining the confidentiality of Oracle‘s trade secrets and proprietary
information is an important element of such protection. This obligation
Consult the Oracle Legal Department website for relevant policies and
continues even after you leave Oracle.
guidelines, some of which are
Information Protection Policy
Employee Proprietary Information Agreement
Copyright Compliance Policy
Policy on Patent Communication and Searches
Code Rules | Intellectual Property Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 42Real World Questions and Answers:
Intellectual Property
1 Q: I am working with a third-party consultant on an Oracle project, and
he needs access to the Oracle network to complete his work. May I share
my user ID and password with him?
A: No. You may not allow third parties to access Oracle computer
systems without appropriate authorization. Moreover, you should
safeguard your passwords to Oracle systems, change them regularly,
and not disclose them to any other person. Follow Oracle‘s Network
Access Policy to obtain authorization for this consultant, and be sure that
you have completed all necessary paperwork and obtained all necessary
approvals for retention of an outside consultant.
2 Q: I often work from home or at a customer site, and I need access to my
Oracle email. May I auto-forward my Oracle email to my personal email
account with a third-party ISP so that I may access my email at home?
A: No. You may not auto-forward your Oracle email to a personal
email account outside the Oracle domain without approval from Global
Information Security. Auto-forwarding your email would allow Oracle
confidential information to pass outside the Oracle network and be
accessible by third parties.
Code Rules | Intellectual Property | Questions and Answers Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 43Protecting Confidential Information
You are required to protect all confidential information that you have access Confidential information includes
to in connection with your Oracle employment. The Oracle Information
Information customers provide to Oracle for the performance of cloud,
Protection Policy, located on the Oracle Legal Department website, provides
technical support, consulting, and other services
the requirements for treatment of confidential information. It also provides a
S ource code
description of the different categories of confidential information, which are
Inventions or developments (regardless of the stage of development)
P ublic
Marketing and sales plans
Confidential—Oracle Internal
Competitive analyses
Confidential—Oracle Restricted
Product development plans
Confidential —Oracle Highly Restricted
P ricing
The Information Protection Policy provides guidance on the proper handling of Potential contracts, mergers, or acquisitions
each information category, including restrictions on use, disclosure, storage,
Financial plans or forecasts
transmission, and deletion. All information related to Oracle‘s business that is
Oracle employee and customer personal information
not intended for public disclosure or any information identified as confidential
by Oracle’s customers, partners, prospective customers, and vendors should
be considered confidential.
Code Rules | Protecting Confidential Information Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 44Security Policies and Practices
Oracle has required security policies designed to protect our confidential information, as well as
Oracle’s systems and resources. These are available on the Corporate Security website. Individual
lines of business and organizations may have additional security practices in place to govern their
operations. You are required to report any unauthorized access of an Oracle facility to Oracle’s
Global Physical Security and report any unauthorized access to or use of Oracle’s networks,
systems, or confidential information to Oracle’s Global Information Security.
Your obligation to protect Oracle confidential information and personal information continues after
you leave Oracle. Similarly, we expect you to abide by your obligations to protect the confidential
information of your former employers. No confidential information obtained during or as a result
of your work with former employers should be brought on Oracle premises or used in any form in
your work at Oracle.
Privacy Policies
Oracle’s external privacy policies located on oracle.com govern the collection, use, transfer, and
security of personal, customer, and prospect information, and information Oracle may access
or be provided in connection with the performance of services. Oracle’s internal privacy policy
located on my.oracle.com governs Oracle’s treatment of Oracle employee and contractor personal
information. You are required to abide by these policies when collecting, processing or handling
this information.
Code Rules | Protecting Confidential Information Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 45Social Media
As a company, we encourage communication among our employees, Respect others’ intellectual property rights, including copyrights
customers, partners, and others—and web logs (blogs), social networks, and privacy/publicity rights, particularly when using photographs or
discussion forums, wikis, video, and other social media can be a great way to video content.
stimulate conversation and discussion. The Oracle Social Media Participation
Unless you are an official Oracle spokesperson who has been trained
Policy, located on the Legal Department website, sets forth the requirements
by Oracle Public Relations and/or Oracle Analyst Relations, you are not
for employee participation in social media.
authorized to speak on behalf of Oracle—or to represent that you do.
Guidelines for external communications are provided in Oracle’s Policy
It is particularly important to remember the following:
Regarding Communications with the Press and Analysts.
The Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and Oracle‘s corporate
When using your personal social media account(s) to discuss Oracle-
and legal policies apply to your online conduct (blogging, liking, tweeting,
related topics, identify yourself as an Oracle employee, and make it clear
commenting, and all forms of online activity) just as much as they apply to
that your opinions are your own and do not necessarily reflect the views
your offline behavior.
of Oracle.
Do not use social media for confidential, substantive, or direct Oracle
Disclose any material connections you have with Oracle or with the
business communications with customers.
provider of any product or service you are reviewing.
Do not discuss merger and acquisition activity, product roadmaps and
Do not disclose confidential information through any social
future product offerings, or certain communications during Closed
media platform.
Communications Periods (“Quiet Periods”), public policy or
Do not make abusive, objectionable, or inflammatory posts.
legislation, and legal commentary, in accordance with the Social Media
Participation Policy.
Code Rules | Social Media Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 46Conflicts of Interest
The term “conflict of interest” describes any circumstance that could cast Corporate business opportunities – For example: an employee purchases
doubt on your ability to act in Oracle’s best interests and to exercise sound real estate in which he/she knows Oracle plans to build a facility.
business judgment unclouded by personal interests or divided loyalties. The
Outside business activities – For example: an employee begins to serve on
term also refers to situations in which it appears that your business judgment
the board of a start-up company that is reasonably likely to compete with
has been compromised. The Conflict of Interest Policy explains how to avoid
Oracle or is part owner of a reseller that is selling products and services.
financial, business, or other relationships that create conflict of interest
Public service or office – For example: an employee takes a position on the
issues and how to deal with those situations. You must read and understand
council of a city in which Oracle has an office.
this policy.
Public speaking, books, and other publications – For example: an employee
Conflict of interest situations may arise in many ways. Some actions that can agrees to conduct a series of lectures on the future of cloud security.
create a conflict include, but are not limited to
Family, friends, and romantic relationships – For example: a manager
continues to supervise an employee with whom the manager has a
romantic relationship, or approves discounts for a partner owned by the
manager’s brother, or engages a vendor or vendor organization owned
by a close personal friend or a person with whom he/she has a
romantic relationship.
Personal financial interests – For example: an employee directs Oracle
business to a vendor in which he/she has a financial interest.
Code Rules | Conflicts of Interest Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 47Other potential conflict of interest scenarios are outlined in the Conflict of Oracle’s senior officers—chief executive officer, chief technology officer,
Interest Policy. The presence of a conflict does not necessarily mean that president, chief operating officer, chief financial officer, chief accounting
an activity will be prohibited. If you feel that you have a potential conflict officer, executive vice president, and senior vice president—are subject to
of interest, you must, first, refrain from the activity that creates the conflict, additional reporting requirements, which are spelled out in detail in the
second, you must promptly disclose the conflict of interest or potential Conflict of Interest Policy. Non-employee members of the Oracle Board of
conflict of interest in writing via the Conflict of Interest Disclosure Form and Directors are subject to the conflict of interest provisions of Oracle’s Corporate
submit it to a member of the Compliance and Ethics team. If you observe any Governance Guidelines in lieu of the conflict of interest provisions contained
situation involving another employee that you believe in good faith to be a in this Code. Senior officers and members of the Oracle Board of Directors
conflict of interest, you must report the situation to your manager, your who have questions regarding this Code or other relevant policies should
HR manager, your regional Compliance and Ethics Officer, or the Integrity contact Oracle’s General Counsel.
Helpline. Reports from employees will be handled as confidentially
as possible.
Code Rules | Conflicts of Interest Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 48Real World Questions and Answers:
Conflicts of Interest
1 Q: I have been approached by friends to invest in a company that will 3 Q: A current Oracle customer has asked me to be its consultant in
be producing a product that could eventually be sold to Oracle. If this is developing a product that would be of no interest to Oracle. I often deal
purely an investment interest and I will not take part in the management with this customer on the job. Could this be a conflict of interest?
of the company or provide any advice, will this be a conflict of interest? A: Yes. This could create a conflict of interest because other vendors,
A: It depends. Whether or not this activity could constitute a conflict of suppliers, or customers of Oracle might suspect you of favoritism to this
interest depends on particular company even though none may be present. The objectivity
• The position you hold with Oracle of your business decisions could be questioned. In addition, this would
• The influence others may believe you have in the selection of create a conflict of interest if you are performing services for the
Oracle suppliers customer personally that Oracle might otherwise have been retained
• The amount of your investment to perform.
• The importance of Oracle as a prospective customer
4 Q: I have been asked to take a seat on the board of directors of a start-up
You should fully disclose the matter by submitting a Conflict of
company. May I accept?
Interest Disclosure Form to Oracle Compliance and Ethics to obtain the
A: Not without approval. If you wish to serve on a board of directors, you
appropriate approvals.
must receive the written approval via the use of the Conflict of Interest
2 Q: Can an Oracle employee teach a course at a local university for pay? Disclosure Form. The company for which you serve should not be in a
A: Yes. It is permissible to teach at an educational institution with written competitive position with Oracle and should not be a customer, partner,
approval via the use of the Conflict of Interest Disclosure Form. or supplier of Oracle, and the time required to serve on the board should
not be substantial. You may receive compensation when serving in an
approved position.
Code Rules | Conflicts of Interest | Questions and Answers Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 49Gathering Information About
Our Competitors or Other
Third Parties
You may not seek to obtain proprietary information about Oracle competitors,
and you may not seek to obtain any information about Oracle competitors
or other third parties illegally or in a way that involves a lack of integrity or
a breach of any confidentiality or employment agreement. You must always
disclose your employment with Oracle and never misrepresent your identity
when attempting to collect competitive information. In the event that you
inadvertently obtain a third party’s confidential or proprietary information
without authorization, you must not disseminate the information within Oracle
and you must immediately contact Oracle Legal at legal_us@oracle.com.
Unless Oracle Legal instructs otherwise, you must promptly destroy all copies
of such information in your possession.
We may make appropriate observations about competitors’ products and
activities when basing them on publicly available information, such as public
presentations and marketing documents, journal and magazine articles,
advertisements, and other published information.
Code Rules | Gathering Information About Our Competitors or Other Third Parties Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 50Real World Questions and Answers:
Gathering Information About Our Competitors or Other Third Parties
1 Q: I have just received a copy of proprietary competitive information in
the mail. Can I use it?
A: No. Instead, do not send or forward the information to any other
employees, and immediately contact Oracle Legal at legal_us@oracle.
com. Unless Oracle Legal instructs otherwise, you must promptly destroy
all copies of such information in your possession. Proper intelligence
gathering is a legitimate marketing strategy, but Oracle will never
approve use of apparent proprietary information that it receives from
unknown sources.
2 Q: I used to work for a customer of one of Oracle‘s competitors. In my
capacity in that job, I learned a lot about how the competitor operates. I
even still have a copy of one of their contracts on my personal computer.
Can I share this information with Oracle?
A: No. It’s tempting to use information about a competitor that you
obtained during your prior employment to Oracle’s advantage but, in this
case, it is not permitted. We expect you to protect confidential knowledge
obtained from your employment with former employers.
Code Rules | Gathering Information About Our Competitors or Other Third Parties | Questions and Answers Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 51Contracting
You are expected to compete fairly and ethically for all business opportunities. Spending and Signing Authority
If you are involved in the purchase, sale, or licensing of products/services,
the negotiation of agreements, or the delivery of services to customers, you
Before acquiring any goods or services, signing any document, or making
are expected to understand and honor the terms of Oracle‘s contractual
any other commitments on behalf of Oracle, you must ensure that you have
agreements. Also, you must ensure that all statements, communications, and
spending authority equal to or greater than the total amount of payments or
representations to customers, suppliers, and internal approvers are accurate
other concessions to which you are committing Oracle. You should aggregate
and truthful.
the total cost of a purchase when making this determination. It is not
permissible, for example, to open several purchase requisitions for a single
Oracle is committed to meeting all of our contractual obligations. You must
vendor on the same project to avoid going outside the limits of your spending
obtain all appropriate approvals before executing, modifying, or amending
authority. If you do not have adequate spending authority, obtain approval
any contract. Oracle prohibits unauthorized contracts or modifications of
from the manager in your chain of management who has the appropriate
contracts, including side letters or oral agreements. A “side agreement” or
signing authority. If you have questions about your spending authority,
“side letter” is any agreement, promise, or commitment (whether written or
consult your manager. You should also familiarize yourself with the Global
oral) by or on behalf of Oracle with a customer or partner from whom revenue
Spending Approval Policy, Global Source-to-Settle Policy, and the Document
has been or will be recognized, that is either undocumented or documented
Signing Authority Policy.
in agreements separate from the main contract. Such side agreements are
prohibited under Oracle policy.
Code Rules | Contracting Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 52Real World Questions and Answers:
Contracting
1 Q: Your customer is ready to sign the contract, but it needs board
approval. The customer assures you that its board will approve the
transaction when it meets in 10 days and asks you to allow 15 days
within which to return the software in the unlikely event that the board
does not approve. May you send a letter confirming that the customer
has 15 days to return the software?
A: No. This would constitute an unauthorized side letter modifying the
terms of the contract. Execution of unapproved side letters is grounds for
disciplinary action.
2 Q: A customer asks you to write a letter confirming that it is entitled to
use its software in a way that is not expressly allowed by the Oracle
license agreement. You note that the Oracle license agreement does not
expressly prohibit the use intended by the customer, and you are certain
that Oracle would not object. May you write the letter?
A: No. Oracle may be willing to modify the contract to allow the use
desired by your customer, but such a change to the contract requires the
necessary business review and approval. Treat the request as one for a
formal contract amendment and process the request in compliance with
Oracle‘s business practice guidelines.
Code Rules | Contracting | Questions and Answers Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 53Use of Oracle Resources
We use a number of company and personal assets and resources to perform Oracle may employ security procedures at our facilities to monitor and
our jobs. These include Oracle facilities, computers, telephones, and email, as maintain security, including the use of closed circuit television. Also, use of
well as certain personal devices. It is critical that each of us fully understands Oracle computers, systems, resources, and employee personal devices used
the requirements for appropriate use of these resources. for business purposes may be monitored or imaged for legal preservation to
the extent permitted by applicable law.
You are required to comply with the Acceptable Use Policy for Company
Resources, located on the Legal Department website. The topics In addition, Oracle requires you to comply with Oracle’s Information and
covered include Physical Security policies at all times. Oracle property may not be sold,
loaned, given away, or disposed of without proper authorization. Upon leaving
Personal use of Oracle resources and appropriate conduct
employment with Oracle, all Oracle property—including keys, security badges,
Reporting data loss and security incidents
computer equipment, software, handbooks, and internal documents—must
Use of Oracle and third-party instant messaging, email, voicemail, mobile be returned.
phones, removable media, and applications
Use of passwords and prevention of viruses
Protecting confidential information
I ssuing public statements
Marketing and customer communications
Investigations and access to resources and facilities
Code Rules | Use of Oracle Resources Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 54Financial Integrity
Accurate and reliable financial and business records are of critical importance No payment on behalf of Oracle shall be made or approved with the understanding
in meeting Oracle‘s financial, legal, and business obligations. Oracle‘s that it will or might be used for something other than the stated purpose.
financial books, records, and statements must properly document all assets
All approval requests for nonstandard discounts must be accurate and commercially
and liabilities and accurately reflect all transactions of the company. No false
justified. Margins derived from misleading and/or unjustified nonstandard discounts
entries are ever permitted on Oracle’s books or records, for any reason. Below
are inappropriate, and may not be used to pay or otherwise reward an Oracle
are some helpful guidelines regarding financial record keeping.
customer, employee, or other third party.
Billing of time or expenses by consultants, submission of Oracle timecards,
Placing an order with Oracle without the existence of a corresponding end user
entry of orders by sales administrators, and submission of travel and
agreement (also known as “pre-loading” or “channel stuffing”) is not an acceptable
expense reports shall be made timely and accurately and in compliance
Oracle business practice and is prohibited. Oracle partner agreements require
with Oracle policy, professional standards, regulations, and laws.
partners to provide a copy of the end user agreement (Proof of End User—POEU)
No documents shall be inappropriately altered or signed by those lacking documentation upon Oracle’s request and such documentation is required for certain
proper authority. Please refer to Oracle’s Document Signing Authority orders to be booked as outlined in Oracle’s Revenue Recognition Policy.
Policy on the Oracle Legal Department website for more information.
In working with Oracle partners (VADs, resellers, and the like), you are expected to
Oracle funds or assets must not be used for any unethical, inappropriate, maintain neutrality and take all reasonable measures to ensure partner adherence
or illegal purpose. to Oracle policies and contractual obligations. Partners or other third parties should
never be engaged to make or facilitate improper payments, misrepresent the nature or
The handling and disbursement of funds related to an Oracle transaction
substance of a transaction, or structure deals in a manner intended to circumvent the
must be pursuant to a duly authorized Oracle written contract with clearly
design and intent of Oracle policies and controls. For further information, see Oracle’s
defined procedures.
Partner Engagement Guidelines and Guidelines for Working with Partners.
No undisclosed or unrecorded fund or asset related to any Oracle
transaction shall be established or maintained for any purpose.
Code Rules | Financial Integrity Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 55Public Disclosures
As a public company, Oracle must disclose accurate and complete information
regarding the company and the results of our operations. Our policy is to
report Oracle’s financial results and other significant developments fully,
fairly, accurately, timely, and understandably. Oracle will not tolerate
unauthorized “leaks” or disclosures of corporate information to third parties,
including the press or financial community.
All communications with the press and financial community must be
authorized by Oracle‘s Public Relations or Investor Relations organizations.
Those organizations alone, at the direction of executive management,
are responsible for determining the appropriate spokespersons for
communicating with the press and analysts. Direct any inquiries from the
press or financial community immediately to Oracle Public Relations or
Oracle Investor Relations. For further information, see Oracle‘s Policy
Regarding Communications with the Press and Analysts on the Oracle Legal
Department website.
Code Rules | Public Disclosures Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 56Real World Questions and Answers:
Public Disclosures
1 Q: You receive a call from an investment analyst who heard that Oracle
is having a bad quarter. Having just sat through a forecasting call, you
know that the opposite is true—Oracle is about to have an amazing
quarter. May you set this investment analyst straight? After all, isn’t it a
good idea to correct such misinformation?
A: No. You should not speak with this analyst. Only spokespersons
authorized by Oracle Investor Relations, at the direction of executive
management, are allowed to speak with the financial community about
Oracle or our financial prospects. Oracle commits to providing full,
fair, understandable, timely, and accurate public information about our
financial prospects, and we do so openly, rather than selectively. Refer
any such inquiries to Oracle Investor Relations. Other than that, make
no comment.
2 Q: You receive a call from a reporter who wants more information about
a recent Oracle product announcement. You are very familiar with the
product. May you speak with this reporter?
A: No, at least not without first obtaining permission from Oracle
Public Relations. Oracle Public Relations must approve in advance all
communications with the press. Oracle Public Relations may conclude
that you are the best spokesperson for the company on this issue, but
it—not you—must make that decision.
Code Rules | Public Disclosures | Questions and Answers Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 57Records Retention
The Oracle Records Retention Policy (“Retention Policy”) sets forth guidelines The Retention Policy and the Retention Schedule cover both electronic (soft
governing the retention and disposal of Oracle business records. The copy) and hard copy materials. They apply to all record types regardless of the
Retention Policy requires that you maintain records in accordance with the medium in which they exist, including
Corporate Records Retention Schedule (“Retention Schedule”). The Retention P aper
Schedule identifies the company records that we must retain and the retention Email
period for each record type. You must not retain records that are not identified Video
on the Retention Schedule, unless the records have a current business Hard Drive
purpose or the Oracle Legal Department has instructed that the records be Compact disc or other electronic storage device
retained or preserved. You are responsible for reading and abiding by the
Retention Policy and Retention Schedule. Please be advised that if you You should give special care to ensure that records containing confidential
receive a Legal Hold Notice, the processes noted in the Retention Policy information are retained and disposed of in accordance with both the
should be suspended regarding certain or all Oracle documents that you have Retention Policy and the Information Protection Policy.
in your possession. If you have any questions regarding a Legal Hold, refer to
our Legal Hold FAQs or contact a member of the Oracle Legal Department. If it appears that local circumstances require a record to be retained for
a longer period, please contact the Oracle Legal Department or email
docretention@oracle.com. If you have questions about the Retention Policy or
the Retention Schedule, contact the Legal Department.
Code Rules | Records Retention Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 58Real World Questions and Answers:
Records Retention
1 Q: During the course of your job, you come across some original invoices
that are two months old. All were marked paid and the files are taking up
valuable space. Can you shred them to make room for more
recent information?
A: No. Records such as original invoices represent expenses, which will
eventually have to be reported, reviewed, and audited in connection
with the company’s periodic reporting to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and Oracle‘s investors. Please see the Retention Schedule
for guidance on how long to keep the invoices.
2 Q: The accounting department receives a letter from a customer’s
attorney, demanding that Oracle fulfill certain oral promises that
Oracle allegedly made. Your manager asks you to review your email to
determine whether you have any email messages that would support
such a promise. You identify one email that could be construed as
constituting a promise to a person who was unfamiliar with the customer
relationship, but you believe, in good faith, that no such promise was
ever made to the customer. Should you delete the email?
A: No. Oracle’s Records Retention Policy requires you to preserve all
records that may be relevant to a matter in which Oracle reasonably
anticipates litigation. The manager should immediately escalate this
demand letter to the litigation and legal team.
Code Rules | Records Retention | Questions and Answers Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 59Charitable Donations
Oracle is committed to using our resources to advance education, protect the
environment, and enrich community life. Each year Oracle Giving donates
millions of dollars to nonprofit organizations around the world. Through
grants and sponsorships, as well as Oracle Volunteers’ support, we work
to improve the quality of life in the communities where we do business.
Additionally, our education programs—Oracle Academy and Oracle Education
Foundation—prepare students for success in life and work.
Oracle does not make charitable donations to close deals or seek favor
from decision makers. It is possible, however, for business units to support
nonprofit organizations, as long as they approach it as part of an ongoing,
positive business relationship and not to close business or otherwise secure
favorable treatment on decisions affecting Oracle. All donations must be made
in compliance with the Policy for Cash Donations. Raise questions about any
potential conflict of interest issues that may arise from charitable donations to
Compliance and Ethics.
Code Rules | Charitable Donations Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 60Real World Questions and Answers:
Charitable Donations
1 Q: I serve on a nonprofit organization’s board of directors/trustees. Can I 3 Q: Can I organize an event (e.g., sporting events, networking events,
guarantee the board that Oracle will donate to the organization? fundraisers, etc.) to raise money for a nonprofit organization on behalf
A: No. You must make clear to the nonprofit organization that your of Oracle?
board service is personal, that you are representing yourself only, and A: No, only Corporate Citizenship can organize events to support
that it is unlikely that you will be able to secure a donation from Oracle. nonprofit organizations on behalf of Oracle. Oracle employees can
If the nonprofit organization has historically received donations from support nonprofit organizations through the Oracle Volunteers program
Oracle or has any formal relationship with Oracle, approval from Oracle and the MyCitizenship portal.
Compliance and Ethics is required before you may serve on the board.
Also, see the “Conflicts of Interest” section of this Code.
2 Q: Would Oracle sponsor a fundraising event for a nonprofit organization
with which I am personally involved?
A: No. Oracle Giving sponsors special events only for nonprofit
organizations with which we have strong existing relationships.
Additionally, we sometimes provide sponsorships for events in which
our senior executives are engaged (for example, serving on the
organizing committee being recognized).
Code Rules | Charitable Donations | Questions and Answers Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 61Corporate Social Responsibility
Oracle recognizes the important responsibility we have to respect universally We must comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations.
recognized human rights throughout our operations and in the products and For additional information regarding Oracle’s position on environmental
services we offer. As a global company, we address important human rights management, please refer to Oracle’s Environmental Policy.
issues every day, including online privacy, human trafficking, conflict minerals
and labor rights, freedom of expression, and data privacy.
We support and respect the protection of human rights and ensure that our
business partners and suppliers do the same. We avoid involvement in human
rights violations that could arise through our businesses actions. We require
that child labor, prison or forced labor, and physical punishment are never
permitted in any operation of Oracle. We similarly require that our business
Watch the Video
partners or suppliers not engage in such practices. We respect your right to
organize in labor unions and collectively bargain in accordance with local laws
and established practices.
Oracle is committed to using our technology and resources to advance
education in innovative ways, promote diversity, enrich the life of
communities, and protect the environment. In balancing the needs of our
business with the needs of the environment, Oracle‘s policy is to maintain
our facilities and run our business operations in a manner that minimizes any
adverse impact on the environment. As an example, we seek to reduce, reuse,
and recycle as many resources as we can.
Code Rules | Corporate Social Responsibility Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 62Oracle’s Relationships
Oracle’s Relationships Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 63Oracle and Our Employees
Oracle provides regional employee handbooks or regional HR sites that can If you need information on immigration issues, contact US Immigration for
be used to answer common questions around employee-related policies, US-specific issues or the Mobility Group for countries other than the US
practices, and programs. We encourage you to express ideas for improving through Global Human Resources website.
the workplace and any concerns you may have about the workplace or specific
job-related problems. We will not retaliate and will not tolerate retaliation For US Immigration, including all US visa matters, contact Oracle’s US
against any employee who raises an issue, complaint, or concern in good Immigration team.
faith. Our goal is to deal fairly and equitably with each employee.
For Global Immigration (excluding US-inbound), contact Oracle’s Global
Immigration Laws Mobility group. You can also review Oracle’s Working Worldwide site for
information related to Oracle’s Global Mobility and Global Immigration
program, including:
You must ensure that you, and any employees that report to you, comply
with all applicable immigration laws and/or the advice of Oracle’s designated Global Immigration Program Policy & Guidelines
immigration service providers. At all times, Oracle employees must possess
Global Immigration Program Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
proper work authorization for the country in which they are working. If you
travel internationally on business, you are responsible for obtaining the
appropriate visa before attempting to enter a host country. Visa requirements
apply to all Oracle employees who travel outside of their home countries for
business purposes or who work on projects or international assignments
outside of their home country for any duration. Oracle also prohibits you from
allowing contractors or other employees to work on a project without the
proper authorization or documentation.
Oracle’s Relationships | Oracle and Our Employees Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 64Diversity Military and protected veteran status
S exual orientation
Oracle affirms the principle of equal employment opportunity without regard to any
Any other characteristic protected under federal or state law or
protected characteristic, including but not limited to
local ordinance
Race
We practice and promote such policies in all locations as appropriate under the
R eligious creed
law. We affirm this principle of freedom from discrimination in all aspects of the
N ational origin
employment relationship, from recruitment and hiring, through performance
C olor evaluations, compensation, and promotions, to the end of your employment
relationship with Oracle.
Sex or gender
Gender identity or expression
We base personnel actions strictly on individual ability, performance,
A ge experience, and company need. We avoid actions influenced by personal
relationships and discriminatory practices of any kind. Our goal is to
Mental or physical disability or medical condition
compensate personnel—with wages, salaries, and other benefits—in relation to
Pregnancy
their responsibilities, performance, and experience. Oracle is also committed to
M arital status adhering to wage, hour, and minimum-age guidelines provided by applicable
laws. We strive to structure the content of jobs so that work provides personal
N ational origin/ancestry
satisfaction and challenge.
G enetic information
P olitical affiliation
Oracle’s Relationships | Oracle and Our Employees Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 65Harassment
You are expected to treat your fellow colleagues and/or employees with mutual respect and
dignity. Oracle‘s policy is to provide a work environment free from harassment. Harassment is
prohibited in any form: physical, verbal, and nonverbal. Harassment is prohibited by law and
Oracle policy prohibits the berating or verbal abuse of employees. You may review our policy in
detail by accessing the Anti-Harassment Policy.
Although “harassment’’ most frequently refers to sexual harassment, workplace harassment may
also include harassment based upon a person‘s race, religious creed, national origin, color, sex
or gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, age, mental or physical disability or
medical condition, pregnancy, marital status, national origin/ancestry, genetic information, political
affiliation, military and protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected under federal
or state law or local ordinance.
Report instances of harassment to your manager, your Oracle Human Resources manager, your
regional Compliance and Ethics team, or the Oracle Integrity Helpline. Your report will be kept
confidential to the greatest extent possible and retaliation is not tolerated for any report made in
good faith.
Oracle’s Relationships | Oracle and Our Employees Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 66Safety and Security Environment, Health and Safety
Threats or acts of violence against you, temporary employees, independent Oracle is committed to conducting its business operations in a manner
contractors, customers, clients, partners, suppliers, or other persons and/or that protects the health and safety of its employees, visitors, contractors,
property will not be tolerated. Immediately report potential threats or acts of and the public, while also minimizing the environmental burden of our
violence to Oracle Global Physical Security, which is responsible for defining, operations and products. Oracle’s Global Environment, Health and Safety
developing, implementing, and managing all aspects of physical security (EHS) Department works with all lines of business and employees around the
to ensure your protection, the business enterprise, and assets. In case of an globe to comply with applicable EHS requirements. As an employer, Oracle
emergency, contact local law enforcement. has responsibilities and obligations in preventing workplace accidents and
injuries and promoting safe and healthy workplaces. Immediately report any
You are obligated to provide accurate and complete information requested by instances of noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations to your
Oracle Global Physical Security. This includes investigations regarding threats local facilities manager, your regional Compliance and Ethics Officer or, where
to persons or property, theft of Oracle assets, and theft of personal assets permitted by law, the Oracle Integrity Helpline.
(where the theft occurred on Oracle property). Photography and videography
Oracle Global EHS
of Oracle’s property is prohibited without prior review and written approval
from either Oracle Global Physical Security or your Regional VP of Oracle Real View the Training Video
Estate and Facilities.
You must review and understand the Global Badge Policy, Visitor Policy, and
Taxation
Real Estate and Facilities Emergency Response Plan.
We expect you to pay all applicable taxes on all income from Oracle, including
taxes on income from the exercise of stock options.
Oracle’s Relationships | Oracle and Our Employees Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 67Oracle and Our Customers
We prosper to the degree—and only to the degree—that we serve our
customers well. Our appeal in the marketplace must be based on the quality
of our products and services, the perception that our products and services
are priced fairly to provide value to our customers, and the competence and
honesty of our product and sales presentations. Accordingly, we prioritize
pleasing our customers and anticipating and being responsive to their needs.
Oracle’s Relationships | Oracle and Our Customers Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 68Oracle and Our Partners
Together, Oracle and its partners provide customers around the world with
industry-leading solutions and services. These standards can only be met with
our partners’ cooperation. Oracle expects its partners to conduct business
fairly and ethically, to comply with anti-corruption laws around the world, to
cooperate with Oracle’s requests for information, and to avoid engaging in
any activity that involves even the appearance of impropriety. We require our
partners to adhere to the standards of the Oracle Partner Code of Ethics and
Business Conduct. We also expect our partners to comply with all applicable
laws and regulations. Partners are encouraged to report concerns to the
Integrity Helpline.
Oracle’s Relationships | Oracle and Our Partners Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 69Oracle and Our Suppliers
We maintain open and frank business dealings with our suppliers and strive to
develop mutually advantageous relationships. Oracle expects its suppliers to
conduct business fairly and ethically, to comply with the anti-corruption laws
around the world, to cooperate with Oracle’s requests for information, and to
avoid engaging in any activity that involves even the appearance of
impropriety. We require our suppliers to comply with the Oracle Supplier
Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. We also expect our suppliers to comply
with all applicable laws and regulations and to ensure that all goods and
services provided by them conform to all applicable legal standards. Suppliers
are encouraged to report concerns or issues to the Integrity Helpline.
Oracle’s Relationships | Oracle and Our Suppliers Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 70Enforcement
Enforcement Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 71The Investigation Process
Oracle is committed to maintaining an internal investigations process
focused on accuracy, precision, fairness, and respect for all parties involved.
Your regional Compliance and Ethics Officer is responsible for addressing
business conduct and ethical concerns, including directing the investigation
of allegations of misconduct. Investigations are conducted in compliance with
applicable law and Oracle policies and in such a manner that all parties receive
ethical and fair treatment.
Oracle complies with applicable laws in conducting investigations. To the
extent permitted by applicable law, and when appropriate, investigation
methods may include interviews with the parties and witnesses, review of
relevant financial, electronic, and other records, reviews of publicly available
information, and monitoring and/or analysis of computers, systems, offices,
and other resources.
Enforcement | The Investigation Process Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 72You have a duty to fully cooperate with investigations and to promptly, completely, and truthfully
comply with all requests for information, interviews, or documents during the course of an
investigation. To the extent possible, Oracle treats all reports of alleged misconduct confidentially,
and only those persons with a need to know are informed of and involved in an investigation.
Only the Oracle Corporation General Counsel, Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer, a regional
Compliance and Ethics Officer, or the Compliance Officer’s designee may commence a Code of
Conduct investigation relating to a Code of Conduct violation. All reports of misconduct and related
investigative records are treated in accordance with the Internal Privacy Policy and Information
Protection Policy, both of which are available on the Legal Department website.
Unsubstantiated allegations will have no effect on an employee accused of wrongdoing, and
retaliation will not be tolerated against any employee who reports a concern in good faith or
cooperates with a compliance investigation. For investigations in which misconduct occurred,
Oracle calibrates the application of disciplinary and remedial actions to the conduct established
through the investigation process. In addition, Oracle may report civil or criminal violations to the
relevant authorities.
Enforcement | The Investigation Process Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 73Related Policies and Websites
Listed below are the policies covered in the Code of Conduct and additional resources that may be of assistance.
Charitable Donations Corporate Social Responsibility
Policy for Cash Donations Corporate Citizenship Report
Conflicts of Interest Oracle Academy
Global Conflict of Interest Policy Oracle Education Foundation
Conflict of Interest Disclosure Form Oracle’s Environmental Policy
Contracting Oracle’s Policy Against Trafficking in Persons and Slavery
Document Signing Authority Policy Oracle’s Sustainable Procurement Statement
Oracle Global Source-to-Settle Policy Oracle Volunteers
Oracle Global Spending Approval Policy Statement on Human Rights
Sustainability
Related Policies and Websites Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 74Economic Boycotts Contracting
Foreign Economic Boycott Policy Anti-Harassment Policy
Financial Integrity Compliance and Ethics Website
Closed Communications Periods Global Badge Policy
Oracle’s Revenue Recognition Policy Global Human Resources Website
Government and Public Sector Guidelines for Working with Partners
Anti-Corruption Policy, and Business Courtesies Guidelines Meeting and Events Pre-Approval Guidance
Oracle’s Government Affairs Website Oracle’s Corporate Governance Guidelines
Supplemental Policy on Dealing with Government Oracle Global Physical Security
Intellectual Property
Oracle’s Global Travel and Expense Policy
Copyright Compliance Policy Oracle’s Partner Engagement Guidelines
Employee Proprietary Information Agreement Real Estate and Facilities
Information Protection Policy Real Estate and Facilities Emergency Response Plan
Policy on Patent Communication and Searches US Immigration
Visitor Policy
Related Policies and Websites Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 75Protecting Confidential Information Social Media
Additional Use of Personal Information Policy Social Media Participation Policy
Call Monitoring and Recording Policy Supplemental Ethics Codes
Corporate Security Website Partner Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
Electronic Marketing and Customer Communication Policy Supplier Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
Trade Compliance
Global Information Security
Global Physical Security Global Trade Compliance Website
Internal Privacy Policy International Traffic in Arms Regulation (ITAR) Compliance Policy
Oracle’s Policy Regarding Communications with the Press and Analysts Use of Oracle Resources
Records Retention Oracle Acceptable Use Policy for Company Resources
Corporate Records Retention Schedule
Legal Hold Notice
Oracle Records Retention Policy
Securities and Insider Trading
Insider Trading Policy
Related Policies and Websites Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 76Resources
Oracle provides various resources to assist you with compliance and ethical situations.
Compliance and Ethics
Compliance and Ethics Team
Human Resources
Integrity Helpline
Members of the Legal Department
Resources Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct | 77Oracle Corporation
Worldwide Headquarters
2300 Oracle Way
Austin, TX
78741
U.S.A.
Worldwide Inquiries
Phone
+1.650.506.7000
+1.800.ORACLE1
Fax
+1.650.506.7200
oracle.com
Copyright © 2024, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Published
in the U.S.A. This document is provided for information purposes only,
and the contents hereof are subject to change without notice. We
specifically disclaim any liability with respect to this document, and no
contractual obligations are formed either directly or indirectly by this
document. This document may not be reproduced or transmitted in any
form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, for any purpose, without
our prior written permission. Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle
Corporation and/or its affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their
respective owners.