General Business
Principles
Philips General
Business Principles
your guide for integrity
intranet.philips.com | Search: Philips General Business Principles | 2024TOC
CEO message
1
Our commitment to acting with integrity – always
2
Dear colleagues,
3
At Philips, we get to do the work of our lives to improve lives – everywhere – serving
Ref
patients, customers and consumers, while working closely with our partners. Guiding our
actions are our General Business Principles, which outline how we conduct business.
Regardless of your role or level in the company, you need to know and understand these
principles and live them every day. It’s up to all of us to ensure we are always doing the
right thing.
I see our GBP as a roadmap, outlining clear standards and what’s expected of each of us.
A practical framework for ethical decision-making, enabling us all, including our business
partners, to navigate complex situations with confidence and follow the principles that
define our commitment to integrity, without compromise.
We can be proud of our work to improve lives and help shape the future of personal
health and healthcare. As a health technology company, it’s critical we remain mindful
of the highly regulated industry in which we operate and strive to achieve the highest
standards of integrity. This is how we can all contribute to our ambitious goal of
improving 2.5 billion lives a year by 2030.
At the core of our success at Philips lies the trust we build with all our stakeholders. Our
commitment to patient safety, quality and integrity helps us maintain and build that
trust. Patients, customers, consumers and our partners trust us to deliver high-quality
products and solutions, to be transparent and to protect sensitive information. Together,
trust and integrity underpin our culture of impact with care and safeguard our license
to operate.
To foster a trusting environment, each of us must feel safe to share ideas and voice
concerns. At Philips, we want you to feel empowered to speak up if you see something
is not right. When you speak up, we can act quickly, resolve issues and learn how we can
do better. We will not tolerate retaliation against anyone who speaks up in good faith.
Your voice matters, and we will listen.
Let’s all live by our General Business Principles and continue doing the work of our lives –
creating value with sustainable impact to deliver better care for patients, people and the
planet. I thank you for your commitment to maintaining the highest standards
of integrity.
Roy Jakobs
Chief Executive Officer
2 | Philips General Business Principles 3TOC
Contents
1
2
3
Ref
06 12 14 18
Our commitment to 1 Respecting each other 2 Conducting business 3 Protecting our
always act with integrity with integrity company’s integrity
As a Philips employee 09 1.1 Fair employment practices 12 2.1 Patient safety and quality 14 3.1 Conflicts of interest 18
As a Philips people leader 09 1.2 Diversity and inclusion 13 2.2 Fair and vigorous competition 15 3.2 P hilips’ assets and 19
intellectual property
Not sure what to do? 10 2.3 C onducting business with 15
honesty and integrity 3.3 Privacy and data protection 19
SpeakUp 11
2.4 Business partner integrity 16 3.4 A ccurate business and 20
financial records and reports
2.5 Business intelligence 16
3.5 Inside information 20
2.6 D ealing responsibly with 16
governments, political 3.6 Ethical use of technology 20
parties and politicians
3.7 Political engagement 21
2.7 P revention of 17
3.8 Social media 21
money laundering
2.8 E xport controls and 17
sanctions regulations
See page 23 for reference list
2.9 Environmental protection 17
4 | Philips General Business Principles 5TOC
While pursuing our business
1
objectives, we aim to be a 2
3
responsible partner in society, Ref
acting with integrity toward
our customers and patients,
Our commitment
our employees, business
to always act with
integrity
partners, and shareholders, as
To patients and our customers
well as the wider community
We are committed to improving people’s lives through
meaningful innovation. This means fulfilling our customers’
unmet needs and expectations and keeping an unrelenting
in which we operate. focus on patient safety and quality. We strive to maintain an
ongoing dialogue with our customers as partners. We are
committed to listening to and learning from them, so that
we can design and deliver the solutions they really want and
need with speed, quality, fairness and integrity.
To our employees
We value our employees and we encourage them to further
their own personal development and make full use of their
talents. We foster a healthy, safe and productive work
environment, as well as an open and inclusive atmosphere in
which fair employment practices extend to every member of
the diverse Philips community. We hold each other accountable
to always act with integrity.
6 | Philips General Business Principles 7TOC
To our business partners As a Philips employee,
We pursue mutually beneficial long-term relationships with we commit to always act with integrity. That means: 1
our business partners. We award business to partners who
2
are committed to acting fairly and with integrity, observing
applicable laws, and respecting human rights. 1 2 3 3
Ref
To our shareholders We respect We conduct We protect
We are committed to conducting our business in accordance each other. business with our company’s
with internationally accepted standards of good corporate integrity. integrity.
governance and to providing timely, regular and reliable
information on our activities, structure, financial position
and performance. We aim to achieve a satisfactory return on
Living our General Business Principles (GBPs) means we hold each other accountable
equity, while at the same time retaining sufficient funds in the
to act with integrity and SpeakUp in case of (potential) GBP violations.1
company to generate sustainable growth.
To the wider community in which we operate
We are conscious of our responsibility toward society and the 1 W here there is a difference between a legal requirement and the General Business Principles, we apply the stricter standard.
planet and continue to embed sustainability ever deeper in Philips’ General Business Principles also apply to business partners.
the way we do business to realize environmental and social
impact. We support and respect human rights and strive to
ensure that our activities do not cause or contribute to the
infringement of these rights. We aim to make a global impact
and deliver a more resilient and sustainable future by adopting As a Philips people leader:
and implementing our Environmental, Social and Governance
• We role model integrity as defined by our GBPs, through
(ESG) initiatives.
words & actions.
• We sustain a culture in which ethical conduct is valued
and ensure employees understand what it means to do
business with integrity, through available trainings and
team dialogues.
• We promote a safe and inclusive workplace for our teams, in
which employees feel comfortable raising concerns without
fear of retaliation.
• We take immediate action in case integrity issues are raised
or identified.
8 | Philips General Business Principles 9TOC
Not sure what to do? SpeakUp
1
We all have an obligation to uphold the Philips General Business You are urged to report any (potential) violation of the GBP or
Principles. If you are ever in doubt about a course of action or any other concern that may constitute a direct threat to Philips’ 2
whether you should SpeakUp about a situation, ask yourself corporate integrity. You can always raise a concern with your
3
these questions. people leader, HR or a GBP Compliance Officer. You may also
opt to report your concern to Philips SpeakUp directly.
Ref
GBP Compliance
SpeakUp
Officer
GBP Law Conscience
Is it consistent Is it legal and Is it ethical? People Human
with the GBP? in line with our leader Resources
policies and
procedures?
If the answer
to any of these
Reporting a concern will allow Philips to address Depending on the outcome of the investigation,
questions is ‘no’,
and resolve the issue, ideally before it becomes a appropriate follow-up action is taken. Follow-up
Media Self do not take this violation of law or a risk to health, security or safety. action can be remedial and/or disciplinary in nature.
Would I want to Would I want course of action. Further details on SpeakUp can be found in the Philips Remedial action can vary from strengthening
SpeakUp if you SpeakUp Policy. the business processes, training and coaching, to
read about this to be treated believe someone’s increasing awareness of the expected standard of
If you report a concern in good faith, disclose business conduct. Disciplinary measures may include
actions are not in
in the media? this way? information as part of an investigation, or in any other written warnings and termination of employment.
line with the above. way have participated in an investigation, we shall
not (attempt to) dismiss, demote, suspend, threaten,
harass or in any manner retaliate against you for
doing so.
10 | Philips General Business Principles 11TOC
1
2
3
Ref
1 Respecting
each other
1.1 Fair employment practices 1.2 Diversity and inclusion
For further guidance: We maintain a healthy, safe and productive work We are committed to creating a diverse and inclusive work For further guidance:
• Fair Employment environment and promote a workplace that is free from environment. We strive to attract employees from a wide • I nclusion and
Policy (physical and verbal) harassment. range of backgrounds and provide employees equal Diversity Policy
• O ccupational Health opportunities to contribute to our company and advance
We do not tolerate any conduct that creates, encourages or
and Safety Policy their careers.
permits an offensive, humiliating, hostile or intimidating work
• Human Rights Policy
environment. We do not discriminate on the basis of race,
color, age, gender, gender identity or expression, sexual
orientation, language, religion, political or other opinions,
disability, national or social origin, or birth.
12 | Philips General Business Principles 13TOC
2.2 Fair and vigorous competition
We are committed to competing vigorously and fairly in a For further guidance: 1
free market in order to give customers the widest possible • Antitrust policy
2
choice of products and services at competitive prices.
3
We avoid contact with competitors, unless there is a clear
justification for such contact, and such contact is in compliance
Ref
with antitrust law. We do not restrict our customers’ freedom
to set their resale prices or restrict their sales channels in cases
where such a restriction would violate antitrust law. In instances
where Philips holds a leadership position in the market, we do
not abuse this position.
2.3 Conducting business with honesty
and integrity
We are open, honest, and ethical in all our dealings and For further guidance:
2 Conducting business
operations, and do not employ corrupt practices or commit
• Policy on Anti-Bribery
acts of bribery.
& Anti-Corruption
with integrity
We do not attempt to influence healthcare professionals,
patients, customers, government officials or other business
partners through improper inducement. We do not give
2.1 Patient safety and quality
or receive – either directly or indirectly – anything of value
(including any payment, benefit, gift or hospitality) in order
For further guidance: We place the customer first and uphold patient safety and
to obtain or retain business, influence business decisions,
• Quality Policy quality standards. We design and deliver safe, effective, and
or secure an improper personal or business advantage.
reliable products, solutions and services, in compliance with
We only offer and accept reasonable gifts and hospitality
applicable internal and external regulations and standards.
that are proportionate, given transparently and intended
We do not tolerate actions or behaviors that undermine the to strengthen or build a legitimate business relationship,
quality or regulatory compliance of Philips or its products, without any expectations of reciprocity.
solutions and services.
We do not engage in the practice of facilitation payments
Where this requires testing and research with human to speed up or secure the performance of a routine
participants, we exercise due care, with the aim to protect the government action.
rights, safety and well-being of those involved, in compliance
with the relevant regulations and Philips standards. Where this
requires testing and research using animals, we are committed
to responsible usage, adhering to the principles of replacement,
reduction, and refinement in the setting of humane care.
14 | Philips General Business Principles 15TOC
2.4 Business partner integrity 2.7 Prevention of money laundering
1
For further guidance: We follow a thorough process, using fair and objective We do not engage in money laundering, and we take For further guidance:
• Policy on Anti-Bribery selection criteria, to select and award business to business appropriate actions in case of suspicious transactions, such as • Policy on Anti-Bribery 2
& Anti-Corruption partners who are best placed to help us achieve our company’s payments between unknown entities through an excessive & Anti-Corruption
3
• Policy on Commission objectives and are committed to, and demonstrate, responsible number of intermediaries, high-value cash transactions, or
Payments business conduct. payments made or received by suspicious entities.
Ref
We hold business partners accountable to conduct business
in compliance with our GBPs. We ensure payments made to
business partners are justified by clear and demonstrable 2.8 Export controls and
services rendered by that business partner to Philips.
sanctions regulations
We do not make cash payments to (or accept payments from)
our business partners.
We transfer, sell and purchase goods, software, technologies For further guidance:
and services in compliance with all applicable export controls • Policy on Export
and sanction laws and regulations. Controls
2.5 Business intelligence
We adhere to these laws and regulations by implementing
the restrictions applicable to countries, business partners and
For further guidance: We obtain information about our competitors in a fair manner.
persons, and by classifying all goods, software, technologies
• Antitrust policy We do not make use of confidential information disclosed to
and services in order to identify controlled status and possible
us by a third party if we suspect that in so doing the discloser is
restrictions on the export or transfer of these goods, software,
violating an obligation of antitrust law or confidentiality.
technologies and services.
Before entering into any business relationship or transaction,
we review and assess the applicable export controls and
2.6 Dealing responsibly with
sanctions and determine if the relationship/transaction is
governments, political parties allowed, or if an export authorization or approval is required
from the relevant government agencies.
and politicians
For further guidance: We comply with public procurement rules that apply
• Policy on Anti-Bribery to government projects or contracts. 2.9 Environmental protection
& Anti-Corruption
We do not make any contribution, in money or in kind,
We do all that is reasonable and practicable to minimize any
to political parties or organizations, or to individuals
adverse environmental impact of our activities and products
engaged in politics.
over their lifecycle. We team up with our partners, including
suppliers, to reduce their environmental footprint.
16 | Philips General Business Principles 17TOC
3.2 Philips’ assets and intellectual
property 1
2
We protect Philips´ assets and resources against illegal,
unauthorized or irresponsible use. 3
We safeguard Philips’ proprietary information – including
Ref
our patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other
forms of intellectual property – against potential loss, damage,
destruction, theft, unauthorized use or improper disclosure.
We classify and secure Philips’ proprietary information
in accordance with the Philips security requirements.
We treat third-party assets that are in our possession and
confidential information disclosed to us by a third party with
the same level of care.
3.3 Privacy and data protection
3 Protecting our
We protect personal data and preserve the privacy of For further guidance:
company’s integrity our customers, employees, business partners and other • Privacy and Data
relevant individuals. Protection Policy
We handle all personal data with integrity and in compliance
3.1 Conflicts of interest
with applicable privacy and data protection regulations.
We process personal data fairly, for specified purposes and
For further guidance: We avoid all potential conflicts of interest between work and
in line with individuals’ reasonable expectations.
• Policy on Conflicts personal affairs. Where this is not possible, or in cases of doubt,
of Interest we proactively address any engagement outside Philips or We use appropriate security measures to safeguard the
any financial interest (direct or indirect via a family member or confidentiality, integrity and availability of personal data
acquaintance) which could give rise to a potential conflict of entrusted to us.
interest by informing our manager or GBP Compliance Officer
to address the issue or by registering the engagement. We use
Philips’ assets solely to pursue and achieve Philips’ goals, and
not for personal gain.
18 | Philips General Business Principles 19TOC
3.4 Accurate business and financial 3.7 Political engagement
records and reports 1
We do not allow our personal political opinions to influence
us in the performance of our job. We do not use Philips’ 2
For further guidance: We record and report information accurately, completely and
assets, including our time at work, to further our own political
• F inancial Code honestly. We do not make misleading or false statements. 3
activities or interests.
of Ethics
We keep records of transactions, funds and assets in
Ref
• Policy on Anti-Bribery
a transparent, accurate, complete and timely manner,
& Anti-Corruption
demonstrating the nature of the transaction, in accordance
3.8 Social media
with Philips’ accounting principles. We record all payments
properly and fairly in appropriate books of account.
We use social media for internal and external communications For further guidance:
in a responsible manner. When discussing or reviewing Philips • S ocial Media
or its products on social media or on other online platforms, Guidelines
3.5 Inside information we disclose our relationship to Philips and are respectful to
our audience. We remain professional in our conduct, do not
For further guidance: We do not trade on or disclose non-public information, the publish other parties’ content without their permission, and do
• Rules of Conduct with publication of which would be likely to have a significant not use offensive or demeaning language. We do not comment
respect to Trading influence on the trading price of Philips securities or securities on or discuss confidential information (including Philips
in Royal Philips of companies that Philips is seeking to acquire (‘inside financial information, Philips intellectual property and any
Securities
information’). We hold inside information in strict confidence undisclosed or otherwise confidential information), business
until such time as it is released into the public domain by plans, or information about employees or upcoming product-
authorized management. related announcements.
Philips employees with access to inside information refrain from
executing transactions in the securities of the company
to which the inside information relates, directly or indirectly,
and are prohibited from advising or encouraging other persons
to do so.
3.6 Ethical use of technology
For further guidance: We are committed to ethical and responsible use of technology.
• A rtificial Intelligence We design and develop technology-enabled solutions with
Principles the aim of benefiting the health and well-being of individuals.
For AI-enabled solutions, we are committed to ensuring
appropriate human oversight, as well as robustness, fairness
and transparency of functions and features of our offerings.
20 | Philips General Business Principles 21TOC
Scope and deployment of the
Philips General Business Principles
1
The GBPs are not all-encompassing, but formulate minimum
standards of behavior for our employees and our business 2
partners. The underlying policies form an integral part of the
3
GBPs. Function, business and country management are free to
specify further rules of business conduct.
Ref
These GBPs have been adopted by the Executive Committee
and approved by the Supervisory Board. They are reviewed on a
regular basis and revised when necessary.
In order to ensure that the topic of business integrity is alive
throughout the company, a worldwide communication and
training program, including mandatory sign-off on the GBPs,
has been put in place to heighten awareness of and compliance
with the GBPs.
References
Compliance with the GBPs is monitored via a worldwide
network of regional, country and business Compliance Officers,
The following standards served as reference in the preparation
who regularly report to the Executive Committee and the
of the Philips General Business Principles and may be a useful
Supervisory Board. Compliance processes and procedures are
source of additional information.
audited by Philips Group Internal Audit.
• Universal Declaration of Human Rights
• UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
• The eight Fundamental Conventions of the International
Labour Organization, nos. 87, 98, 29, 105, 138, 182, 100
and 111,
• UN Global Compact
• UN Convention against Corruption
• International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) Code of
Advertising and Marketing Communication Practice
• OECD Guidelines on the Protection of Privacy
and Transborder Flows of Personal Data
• OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public
Officials in International Business Transactions
• OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
• UN Security Council Resolutions on export controls
22 | Philips General Business Principles 23On the General Business Principles intranet site you have access to translated versions,
underlying policies, cases, red flags, questions & answers, glossary, references and further guidance. Here you
can also find the GBP Compliance Officers and information on SpeakUp.
Find our Philips General Business Principles at intranet.philips.com
Search: Philips General Business Principles
2024 © Koninklijke Philips N.V., Amsterdam, Netherlands