Policy
Financial Code of Ethics
October 2021
Preamble to Philips’ Financial Code of Ethics
Introduction
Koninklijke Philips N.V. (the ‘Company’) has adopted this Financial Code of Ethics
(the ‘Financial Code’) to deter wrongdoing and to promote:
• honest and ethical conduct, including the ethical handling of actual or
apparent conflicts of interest between personal and professional
relationships;
• full, fair, accurate, timely, and understandable disclosure in the reports and
documents that the Company files with, or submits to, investors and
regulators including the US Securities and Exchange Commission (‘SEC’);
• compliance with applicable governmental laws, rules, and regulations;
• prompt internal reporting of violations of the Financial Code to an
appropriate person or persons identified in the Financial Code; and
• accountability for adherence to the Financial Code.
The Financial Code is, as a supporting policy, an integral part of the Philips
General Business Principles.
Page 1 of 7Employees involved
The following employees (the ‘Target Group’) must adhere to the rules
of the Financial Code:
1. The Chief Executive Officer;
2. The Chief Financial Officer;
3. The Chief Accounting Officer;
4. The heads of FP&A, Philips Capital, Internal Audit, Finance Greater China,
Finance North America, Finance International Markets, Finance Businesses,
Finance Enabling Functions, Group Investor Relations, Group M&A and
Divestments, Group Tax, and Group Treasury;
5. The head of Internal Control, the head of Financial Reporting LSP, the head
of Group Consolidation and Reporting, the head of Technical Accounting &
Oversight, the Global Business Process Owner Finance, and the head of
Finance Oversight;
6. The Finance Business Partners;
7. The market, business and country controllers;
8. The controllers of legal entities other than a country organization, to be
designated by either the market or country controller;
9. The controllers of organizations that submit information for group
consolidation purposes in so far as they are not covered by one of the
previous categories; and
10. Employees performing an accounting or financial function, designated as
belonging to the Target Group by one of the employees referred to above.
Questions
If you have any questions about the Financial Code or the interpretation thereof,
you can contact your GBP Compliance Officer or the Chairman of The Review
Committee GBP.
Page 2 of 7Financial Code of Ethics (the ‘Financial Code’)
Definitions
• GBP Compliance Officer is the initial contact person, assigned to relevant
business, market or country, to discuss and/or register an (alleged)
violation of the Financial Code.
• Target Group means the Senior (Financial) Officers and those other
employees designated to adhere to the Financial Code.
• Senior (Financial) Officers include the Executives and others referred to in
the section “Employees involved” from number 1 up to an including
number 5.
All employees belonging to the Target Group shall:
1. Act honestly and ethically
• Carry out their duties in an honest and ethical way by ensuring that
business policies and practices are aligned with ethical principles.
• Maintain the confidentiality of privileged information acquired during the
course of their work, except when disclosure has been authorized, or, is
legally obliged.
• Act in good faith, responsible, with due care, competence, and diligence,
without misrepresenting material facts or allowing one’s independent
judgment to be subordinated.
• Clearly communicate ethical expectations to those with whom they work.
• Refrain from using or appearing to use confidential information acquired in
the course of one’s work for unethical or illegal advantage either personally
or through third parties.
• Ensure the integrity of records.
2. Avoid conflicts of interest
• Avoid actual or apparent conflicts of interest between personal and
professional relationships.
• Take no actions and avoid interests outside Philips that may make it
difficult to perform company work objectively and effectively. No direct or
indirect financial interest in a supplier or competing company is allowed,
with the exception of a financial interest in a publicly traded company.
Service to Philips should never be subordinated to personal gain or
advantage. No employee, his or her partner, or a member or his or her
family, may receive improper personal benefits as a result of the
employee’s position at Philips.
Page 3 of 73. Comply with applicable governmental laws, rules, and regulations
• Perform their duties in accordance with relevant laws, rules, and
regulations.
4. Protect Philips’ assets and resources
• Ensure the proper use, protection, and conservation of Philips’ assets and
resources. This includes Philips’ properties, assets, proprietary interests,
financial data, trade secrets, corporate information, and other Philips’
rights.
5. Provide reliable financial reporting and disclosures
• Provide full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable financial information
and disclosure in reports and documents that Philips files in public
communications and any internal reporting that leads or may lead to public
communications, including to stock exchanges.
• Refrain (themselves or those acting under their direction) from directly or
indirectly taking any action to fraudulently influence, coerce, manipulate,
or mislead persons preparing the financial statements or to otherwise take
any action directly or indirectly that would cause such financial statements
to be materially incorrect or misleading.
• Ensure that the organization’s accounts and reporting comply with the
Philips IFRS Accounting Manual, in all material respects.
• Give external and internal auditors of Philips full access to all information
necessary to them to properly conduct any audit of Philips.
6. Ensure reliable internal controls
• Give due consideration to assessing the quality of business controls,
including internal controls over financial reporting, as well as to
implementing control improvements.
• Take immediate action to resolve any control weaknesses that could
materially affect the reliability of financial reporting and disclosures.
7. Maintain a proper professional competence level
• Ensure that their professional competences and skills are maintained at a
level that is consistent with the responsibility of their job, with due
observance of requirements from professional bodies regarding ongoing
education.
Page 4 of 78. Be accountable for adherence to the Financial Code
• Ensure that the rules of the Financial Code are imposed on their
subordinates, who are performing accounting or financial functions, and
that they are made fully aware of this obligation.
• Initiate management action if and when a (possible) violation of the rules
of the Financial Code is noted within the own organization.
9. Raise concerns
• Report any conflict of interest that could reasonably be expected from any
material transaction or relationship to the GBP Compliance Officer, or, the
Philips Speak Up (Philips Ethics Line).
• Report a breach of the Financial Code immediately to the GBP Compliance
Officer, or, the Philips Speak Up.
Compliance, disclosure, and amendments
Confirmation of compliance
Each year, the Target Group shall confirm in writing that the Financial Code has
been adhered to during the current year, and that any breaches they are aware of
have been promptly and duly reported to the GBP Compliance Officer, or, the
Philips Speak Up. Other employees may be requested to confirm adherence to the
Financial Code as well. The Senior (Financial) Officers will be responsible for
preparing a list of the employees that must confirm adherence to the Financial
Code.
Reporting your concerns
You are urged to report to your GBP Compliance Officer, or, the Philips Speak Up
any concerns relating to the application of the Financial Code. Concerns involving
the Senior (Financial) Officers must be reported to the Chairman of the Review
Committee GBP.
If your concern involves the Chairman of the Review Committee GBP, or, members
of the Executive Committee, you can submit your concern to the Chairman of the
Supervisory Board (Amstelplein 2, HBT-14, 1096 BC Amsterdam, the Netherlands).
Investigation of your concerns
When raising a concern, disclosure of all relevant information known to you will
assist us in our response to a concern or its investigation thereof and will allow a
proper assessment of the nature, extent, and urgency of the matter.
Page 5 of 7When a concern is raised, we will promptly arrange for an investigation into the
concern, or, for the concern to be redirected to the appropriate grievance channels.
The investigation will be conducted in a fair and responsible manner with respect to
all parties involved.
Within a maximum period of two months after registration of your concern, the GBP
Compliance Officer will inform you of the outcome of the investigation. If you
reported your concern to the Philips Speak Up you can contact the Philips Speak Up
two months after the reporting date, using the ID number given to you. If an
investigation is commenced and not completed within two months you will be
informed of the expected date of completion.
The Review Committee GBP has oversight responsibility for ensuring that your
concern is investigated in an independent, impartial, and unbiased manner, focusing
on fact-finding with due observance of (inter)national legislation and applicable
regulations. If you are not satisfied with the manner your concern is
being handled you can inform the Secretary of the Review Committee GBP of this
in writing.
When you are involved in an investigation, you are expected to cooperate with the
assigned investigator(s). If you withhold relevant information, this represents a
breach of duty between you and Philips.
Confidentiality
All concerns will be handled in a confidential manner. Information relating to your
concern, including your identity or the identity of other persons involved in an
inquiry or investigation, shall only be disclosed to those functions within the Philips
Group (i.e. the investigator(s), the respective GBP Compliance Officer (s), and
members of Group Internal Audit or Group Legal) or outside Philips (e.g. forensic
auditors and legal counsel) who require this information to ensure appropriate
investigation of your concern, as well as any legal or regulatory obligations, or as
input for subsequent judicial proceedings. You, as well as any Philips employees
who participate in an investigation, must keep the matter confidential.
No reprisals
We shall not dismiss, discharge, demote, suspend, threaten, harass or in any
manner retaliate or discriminate against an employee on account of his/her raising a
concern, disclosing information relating to a concern as part of an investigation or
Page 6 of 7otherwise participating in an investigation relating to a concern. Reprisals are
considered a serious violation and we will take appropriate action to avoid further
damage to this employee and to discipline those responsible for the reprisals. Your
right to protection from retaliation does not give you immunity in respect of any
complicity in the matters that are the subject of your concern raised or an ensuing
investigation or judicial proceedings. If you have reasonable grounds to fear that the
reporting of an alleged breach will lead to repercussions you can inform the
secretary of the Review Committee GBP of this in writing.
Any reporting of a concern which was known to be false, any interference or refusal
to cooperate with an investigation will result in disciplinary or legal action (including
termination of employment) being taken against the employee concerned.
Disciplinary action
Violation of the Financial Code may lead to disciplinary action, including dismissal,
notwithstanding any further civil or criminal action that may be taken including
notification of the SEC or other appropriate law enforcement authorities.
Disclosure
Any change in the Financial Code or waiver from the Financial Code, granted to a
Senior (Financial) Officer, will be disclosed in the annual report (Form 20-F) in
accordance with the requirements of the SEC. Waivers granted to other employees
belonging to the Target Group will not be disclosed unless otherwise required by
applicable law.
Amendment procedure
This Financial Code has been adopted by the Executive Committee. It will be
reviewed on a regular basis and revised where necessary.
Version: 3
Policy author: Arvind Subramanian
Policy owner/approver: Abhijit Bhattacharya
Royal Philips (Koninklijke Philips N.V.)
Page 7 of 7 www.philips.com