Policy
Procurement Code of Ethics
May 2021
Philips employees, involved in the procurement process, play an important role in ensuring Philips
conducts its business with integrity. Adherence to the Philips General Business Principles (GBP) in the
contracting process strengthens stakeholders’ confidence in Philips. Responsible business conduct can
also avoid administrative, civil or criminal penalties as well as considerable business disruptions,
associated with misconduct.
The Philips Procurement Code of Ethics applies to all employees working in Philips Procurement and
is an integral part of the Philips General Business Principles (GBP).
At the end of each year Procurement employees affirm that they have adhered to (i) the Philips
General Business Principles (GBP) and (ii) the Philips Procurement Code of Ethics during the past year,
and that any breach of conduct that they became aware of has been promptly and duly reported. In
addition to full compliance with the Philips General Business Principles (GBP), employees shall
conduct business with honesty and integrity and, more specifically:
1. Confidentiality
• Procurement employees may have access to confidential information that may affect a contract bid or the
business award process, such as selection plans, ranking of bids, proposals, competitors involved and
competitive range determinations.
• Confidential information related to quotes and bids from suppliers is not to be shared with any other
supplier or third party at any time. Philips employees will keep confidential information from a supplier
confidential.
2. Conducting business with honesty and integrity
• Procurement employees shall ensure that contracts are awarded and administered free from improper
influence.
• Circumstances might arise that could call into question the impartiality of employees, e.g. when their
procurement duties require them to work with their former employer, partner’s employer, close relatives,or others with whom they have an indirect or direct business relationship. When a conflict of interest may
arise, employees should promptly involve their line manager and/or GBP Compliance Officer.
• Partners or family members may not receive personal benefits as a result of an employee's position at
Philips.
• Employees shall comply with the Philips General Business Principles (GBP) regarding the acceptance of gifts
and hospitality. Local regulations regarding the acceptance of gifts and hospitality must be followed if such
regulations are stricter than the Philips General Business Principles (GBP).
3. Follow a fair process to select suppliers and award business
• Employees shall select suppliers and award business on the basis of fair competition.
• In all cases, Philips will follow the predefined rules of the procurement processes, and share the rules
upfront with suppliers when applicable.
• Arrangements with or among suppliers that could limit or distort competition shall be avoided.
• Long-term agreements with suppliers should periodically be subject to fair and open competition, to obtain
the best current market offering and to provide alternative suppliers with an opportunity to win the
business.
• Employees shall not request any payment from suppliers as a condition of being placed on a preferred
supplier list. Suppliers should be selected on the basis of meeting appropriate selection criteria.
• Employees shall not require or encourage suppliers to undertake activities or incur costs when there is
little chance for them obtaining business within a reasonable period - unless the supplier is made aware of
all the circumstances.
4. Select suppliers that comply with ethical standards
• Employees shall select and award business to suppliers that are committed to acting fairly and with
integrity towards their stakeholders. Suppliers must act with integrity towards stakeholders and observe
both the laws of the countries in which they operate and the guidelines provided in the Philips Supplier
Sustainability Declaration.
5. Report concerns regarding compliance with the Philips Procurement Code of Ethics
• Employees shall report to their line manager, General Business Principles (GBP) Compliance Officer or the
Philips Ethics Line any concerns about compliance with the Procurement Code of Ethics and/or any applicable
laws or regulations.
6. Accountability and adherence to the Philips Procurement Code of Ethics
• Each year, the designated Procurement employees shall confirm in writing that the Procurement Code of
Ethics has been adhered to during the current year, and that any breaches they are aware of have been
promptly and duly reported to the GBP Compliance Officer or the Philips Ethics Line.• Procurement employees are expected to hold each other accountable for
adherence to the Philips General Business Principles and the Procurement
Code of Ethics.
version May 11, 2021 | owner Philips Procurement
Version: 2
Policy author: Yvonne van de Donk
Policy owner/approver: Sophie Bechu
Koninklijke Philips N.V.
Page 3 of 3 www.philips.com