QUALCOMM INCORPORATED
CODE OF ETHICS
1. Application and Purpose
This Code of Ethics (this “Code”) shall apply to all QUALCOMM Incorporated
(“QUALCOMM” or the “Company”) employees, including employees of QUALCOMM subsidiaries
(collectively, “Employees”), as well as each member of the Company’s Board of Directors
(“Directors”). Every Employee and Director must be familiar with and understand the provisions
of this Code. The purpose of this Code is to promote:
• Honest and ethical conduct, including the ethical handling of actual or apparent
conflicts of interest between personal and professional relationships;
• Full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure in reports and documents
that QUALCOMM files with, or submits to, the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”) and in other public communications;
• Compliance with applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations;
• The prompt internal reporting of violations of this Code; and
• Accountability for adherence to this Code.
2. Honest and Ethical Conduct
All Employees and Directors shall perform their duties in an honest and ethical manner.
This includes:
• Avoiding situations in which their personal, family or financial interests conflict with
those of the Company;
• Refraining from engaging in any activities that compete with the Company, or which
may compromise its interests;
• Refraining from taking any business or investment opportunity discovered in the
course of employment with or service to the Company that the Employee or Director
knows, or should have or has reason to know, would benefit the Company.
• Complying with all applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations.
QUALCOMM encourages Employees and Directors to avoid even the appearance of a
conflict of interest and to raise ethical questions, dilemmas, concerns or suggestions with
appropriate individuals within the Company, including supervisors, managers, senior
management or human resources. QUALCOMM has since its inception encouraged such issues
to be raised and, based upon prior experience, many, if not most, of these issues can be
addressed informally, after appropriate discussion and analysis.
If any Employee or Director would feel uncomfortable in any way raising ethical issues as
set forth above, or if they raise such issues and they are not resolved appropriately, then s/he
should consult with the individual designated by the Audit Committee of the Company’s Board of
1Directors (the “Audit Committee”) to address such matters (the “Chief Compliance Officer”), who
will follow the procedures approved by the Audit Committee for resolving such matters. The Chief
Compliance Officer will also follow the procedures described in Section 4 below. Any Employee
or Director who becomes involved in a situation that gives rise to an actual conflict of interest must
promptly inform the Chief Compliance Officer of such conflict.
3. Full, Fair, Accurate, Timely and Understandable Disclosure
QUALCOMM is committed to ensuring that all disclosures in reports and documents that
the Company files with or submits to the SEC, as well as other public communications made by
the Company, are full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable. The Company’s Chief Executive
Officer, President, Chief Financial Officer and Controller (with respect to financial disclosures) are
ultimately responsible for taking all necessary steps to ensure that this occurs. All Company
Employees and Directors shall take appropriate steps within their area of responsibility to ensure
the same.
4. Internal Reporting of Code Violations
Any Employee or Director who in good faith believes or suspects that any portion of this
Code has been violated (including any violation of Section 3 of this Code) and does not feel
comfortable addressing the issue with individuals identified in Section 2 should immediately report
such violation to the Chief Compliance Officer or to the Chair of the Audit Committee. Any such
report will be promptly evaluated and/or investigated. While the Company strongly prefers that
any individual who wishes to make such a complaint to identify him/herself (to assist in the
understanding of the concerns expressed), the Company has created a Business Conduct Hotline
(“hotline”) where Employees or Directors may confidentially and anonymously (where local
country law permits) report known or suspected violations of this Code. To access the hotline, any
Employee or Director may call 800-300-3816 in the U.S., or visit
http://qualcomm.ethicspoint.com or go/hotline to do a country search to find a local phone
number or submit a concern online. Any person reporting such a violation should be prepared to
provide as much detail as possible about the suspected violation, including the individuals
involved, the nature of the violation, documentation of the violation, or any other information which
may be helpful in the Company’s evaluation and, if necessary, investigation of the complaint.
Prompt disclosure to the appropriate parties is vital to ensure a thorough and timely evaluation
and appropriate resolution. A violation of this Code is a serious matter and could have legal
implications. Allegations of such behavior are not taken lightly and should not be made to
embarrass someone or put him or her in a false light. Therefore, reports of suspected violations
should always be made in good faith.
5. No Retaliation.
The Company will not tolerate any retaliation against any person who provides information
in good faith to a Company or law enforcement official concerning a possible violation of any law,
regulation or this Code. Any Employee or Director who violates this rule may be subject to civil,
criminal and administrative penalties, as well as disciplinary action, up to and including termination
of employment.
6. Consequences for Non-Compliance with this Code
Corrective Actions. Any violation of applicable law or any deviation from the standards
embodied in this Code will result in appropriate corrective and/or disciplinary action, up to and
including termination of employment.
2Required Government Reporting. Whenever conduct occurs that requires a report to
the government, the Chief Compliance Officer, under the direction of the Audit Committee, shall
be responsible for complying with such reporting requirements.
7. Publication of this Code; Amendments and Waivers
• This Code will be posted and maintained on the Company’s website and posting will
be disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, by reference to the
Company's proxy statement, if permitted by SEC rules.
• The Annual Report on Form 10-K, by reference to the Company's proxy statement, if
permitted by SEC rules, will also contain a statement that amendments to and waivers
of this Code that are required to be disclosed by SEC rules or Nasdaq listing standards
will be posted on the Company's website.
• While waivers of this code are not anticipated, any amendment to or waiver of this
Code with respect to an “Executive Officer” (as defined under Nasdaq listing
standards) or Director shall require approval of the Board of Directors. In addition, any
amendment to or waiver of this Code with respect to an Executive Officer or Director
shall be disclosed within four (4) business days of such action on the Company’s
website for a period of not less than twelve (12) months, or in a filing on Form 8-K with
the SEC.
• Records of any disclosures relating to waivers of this Code shall be retained for no
less than five years.
[Approved by the Audit Committee on July 11, 2022]
3