Version 01/2023 | PUBLIC
GLOBAL CODE OF
ETHICS AND
BUSINESS
CONDUCT
FOR EMPLOYEES1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 2 / 45
1 INTRODUCTION: A MESSAGE 5 ENSURING TRUST IN OUR BUSINESS 6 ENSURING TRUST WITH OUR
FROM OUR CEO ECOSYSTEM
5.1 Fraud ................................... 23
6.1 Business Relationships with Organizations .. 34
5.2 Organizational Conflicts of Interest ........ 23
2 OUR VALUES AND CULTURE
6.2 Contractual Changes and Unauthorized
5.3 Bribery and Corruption ................... 24
2.1 Our “How We Run” Behaviors and Commitments .............................. 34
5.4 Artificial Intelligence ..................... 27
“Leadership Credo” ...................... 7
6.3 Reciprocity Deals ........................ 35
5.5 Intellectual Property, Confidential
6.4 Conduct with Customers .................. 35
Information, and Personal Data and
3 ETHICAL BUSINESS AND YOU
Privacy Rights ........................... 28 6.5 Conduct with Suppliers ................... 36
3.1 Ask Yourself ............................. 9
5.6 Insider Trading and Inside Information ...... 29 6.6 Conduct with Competitors ................ 37
3.2 Speak Out ............................... 10
5.7 Financial Statements, Disclosures, and 6.7 Conduct with Partners .................... 39
Internal Accounting Controls ............. 30
4 ENSURING TRUST IN THE
5.8 Export Controls and Trade Sanctions ...... 31 7 ENSURING TRUST BY SOCIETY
WORKPLACE
5.9 Anti-Money Laundering and Commitment 7.1 Communication .......................... 42
4.1 Diversity and Inclusion, Anti-Discrimination, to Combating the Financing of Terrorism .. 32
7.2 Human Rights ........................... 43
and Anti-Harassment ..................... 13
7.3 Corporate Social Responsibility ........... 44
4.2 Healthy Organization .................... 14
7.4 Commitment to Improving Our
4.3 Conflicts of Interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Environmental Performance .............. 44
4.4 Protection of SAP Assets .................. 20
7.5 Political Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
4.5 Internal Gift Giving ....................... 201 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 3 / 45
1 INTRODUCTION:
A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO
Win the
Right Way1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 4 / 45
Dear Colleagues,
In the past few years, the world has faced exceptional At SAP, we always undertake our business efforts
challenges, uncertainties, and complexity. The way with integrity. Our Global Code of Ethics and Business
we live, the way we do business, and the way we work Conduct for Employees is our guide, and helps us protect
has been profoundly affected. Technology has become our colleagues, business, reputation, and ecosystem.
crucial to handling these challenges and changes. It demonstrates that SAP is committed to the highest
standards of ethical business and that we expect the
This fast rate of change has increased the focus on same high standards from our partners and suppliers.
building and maintaining trust as the foundation for
growth and innovation. As such, the interplay between It is upon each and every one of us to uphold these
technology and trust will be one of the key drivers of standards, adhere to this Code, and speak out if or
economic growth in the future. when we feel something is not right. Our global team
of ethics and compliance experts is here for you, to
TRUST MATTERS. provide the support and guidance needed to make
strong, ethical, and compliant choices.
Being a trusted partner for our colleagues, customers,
partners, and suppliers has always been at the heart LET’S WIN THE RIGHT WAY.
of our business, but in today’s uncertain environment,
it is more important than ever. Best regards,
Christian Klein
Chief Executive Officer and Member of the Executive Board of SAP SE1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 5 / 45
2 OUR VALUES AND CULTURE
Purpose Delivers
Promise1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 6 / 45
At SAP, our purpose is to help the world run better We are respectful and inclusive of our people and To that end, we do not compromise our values
and improve people’s lives. This allows us to deliver our stakeholders, always aiming to make a positive and our commitment to ethical business. This
on our promise to innovate and help our custom- impact on those societies in which we work. We Global Code of Ethics and Business Conduct for
ers run at their best. We do this by conducting our strive for sustainable growth while protecting our Employees (“Code”) provides us with the neces-
business activities with integrity – using our global environment. sary guidance so that we can act with integrity.
resources and reach to help economy, society, By making the right choices, based on facts and
and the environment prosper. reason, we build trust with our people and stake-
holders together, enabling us to fulfill our purpose
and promise.1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 7 / 45
2.1 Our “How We Run” Behaviors and “Leadership Credo”
As employees, we can demonstrate our commit- If you are a leader, you play a special role in
ment to ethics and compliance by embracing modeling these behaviors to inspire and support
our behaviors and ensuring that we: employees in creating a foundation of trust.
Tell it Stay Embrace • Act with integrity and encourage colleagues
like it is curious differences
to do the same. We need our leaders to do what’s right, making
• Familiarize ourselves with and act in accordance SAP better for generations to come:
How We with our policies and guidelines, including this
Code.
Keep the Run Build bridges, Be inclusive.
promise not silos • Seek help and guidance on matters of com-
pliance – from our manager, HR, Global Legal, Be ethical. Be accountable.
or the Office of Ethics & Compliance (OEC). Be agile. Bring our strategy to life.
Our company culture inspires ethical business • Raise concerns over situations relating to
practices through our established “How We Run” potential noncompliance by using our report- Do what’s right.
behaviors. These behaviors help define how ing channels. For further information about
each of us at SAP can run at our best. reporting channels, see the “Speak Out”
section of this Code.
We are all accountable for our actions, behavior,
and the way we conduct our business.1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 8 / 45
3 ETHICAL BUSINESS AND YOU
Do the
Right Thing1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 9 / 45
3.1 Ask Yourself
We rely on you and our ecosystem – including cus- If at any time you are unsure of the best course of POLICIES AND GUIDELINES
tomers, partners, and suppliers – to assess every action, ask yourself these questions to determine
SAP One /go/globalpolicies
decision and ensure that every action made on the right steps to take:
behalf of and related to our organization is legal,
fair, and compliant with our policies and guide-
ASK YOURSELF
lines, this Code, and any law or regulation.
1 Is it legal?
YES NO
This Code helps guide your conduct as you do
business at SAP. Many of the principles described
2 Is it in line with
in this Code are general in nature. The Code cannot
SAP policies?
cover every situation that may arise. It is a starting
YES NO
point and not the exclusive source of information DON’T DO IT!
regarding how we conduct business. 3 Is it reflective of
Not sure?
SAP culture and values?
Review applicable
It is our duty to familiarize ourselves with all YES NO policies, check with
applicable SAP policies and other governance your manager if
4 Would you be comfortable if this necessary, or ask
documents as they provide detailed guidance.
topic appeared in the news? the respective experts
for support.
YES NO
Use common sense and good judgment in apply-
ing this Code. If you have any questions about the
5 Could it adversely affect SAP, our
Code and its application, it is your responsibility
stakeholders, and employees?
to always seek support from one of the resources
NO YES
provided.
MOVE FORWARD!1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 10 / 45
3.2 Speak Out
Prevention is best; however, if something does 3.2.1 REPORTING CONCERNS: Global People Compliance Office
go wrong, we count on you to speak out. We rely OUR REPORTING CHANNELS E-mail: PeopleCompliance@sap.com
on you and our ecosystem to report any actual Report any serious compliance concerns relating Post: Global People Compliance Office, SAP SE
or potential misconduct of which you may to the Code or any laws and regulations – in good Dietmar-Hopp-Allee 16, 69190 Walldorf, Germany
become aware. faith, confidentially, and if desired, anonymously –
using our Speak Out at SAP tool. Speak Out is There are also third-party channels for reporting
We can fix a problem only if we are aware of it. available online or via the integrated 24x7 helpline, potential misconduct that involves breaches of
The earlier we learn about an issue, the greater which has local language support whether you EU laws and national implementations thereof
the chances to mitigate potential harm to SAP, are reporting from inside or outside of SAP. according to the EU Directive 2019/1937 on the
our employees, and those doing business with us. protection of whistleblowers.
We ask you to provide as much information as
If something doesn’t look right, sound right, or feel possible when making a report. Mere rumors are For support relating to a particular topic managed
right, it probably is not right. We encourage you to not sufficient; however, actual proof of wrongdoing by a specific area of our business, you are always
speak out. is not necessarily required. free to reach out to the respective department
directly. A list of department-specific contact
We recommend discussing any serious concerns You can also use the following additional channels is available on SAP One at /go/speakout.
about ethics and compliance with your manager reporting channels:
and your Field Compliance Officer within the Office Support is also provided by the Global Ombuds
of Ethics & Compliance (OEC). You can report your Office of Ethics & Compliance (OEC) Office (ombudsperson@sap.com) as a confidential,
concerns using the various reporting channels Unified Ticketing: Create a ticket impartial, and independent contact for employees
that SAP provides (see the “Reporting Concerns: Your local Field Compliance Officer: to be heard in any kind of difficult or conflicting
Our Reporting Channels” section of this Code). SAP One /go/ethicalbusiness situation. They provide informal counselling and
Post: Office of Ethics & Compliance, SAP SE conflict de-escalation services, and can assist in
Dietmar-Hopp-Allee 16, 69190 Walldorf, Germany raising formal complaints where applicable.1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 11 / 45
3.2.2 YOUR REPORT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Investigations may result in consequences related For example, we strictly limit access to these
SAP is committed to thoroughly assessing every to employment law and external investigations, reports to a small number of specifically trained
concern shared through our reporting channels action in the civil courts, or criminal prosecution. and authorized experts. Should any forms of
and, where appropriate, conducting careful, objec- retaliation occur despite our precautions, we
tive, and professional investigations of the matter 3.2.3 SAP PROTECTS YOU ask that you report them via Speak Out at SAP.
by the respective expert departments (for example, We know that it can take courage to report a con- We can draw on additional robust procedures
Office of Ethics & Compliance (OEC), Internal Audit, cern. You may ask yourself the following questions: to address your protection.
Global People Compliance Office, and Data Protec- Is what I am observing really wrongdoing? Will I
tion and Export Control). Where appropriate, SAP face consequences if I report? Is it worth it? We equally do not tolerate any personal or false
will carry out consequence management and apply attacks aimed at specific individuals. Dishonest,
acquired insights to further strengthen our policies, SAP does not tolerate any form of retaliation bad faith, or otherwise abusive reports are pro-
processes, and controls. against those who raise concerns in good faith hibited and may result in disciplinary action.
to help protect and prevent damage to SAP or
When SAP carries out an investigation, we require those who cooperate in a company investigation.
REPORTING A CONCERN
your full cooperation to help resolve a matter,
www.sap.com/speakout
including providing truthful information about
SAP One /go/speakout
work-related matters to SAP personnel or external
counsel investigating compliance concerns on
behalf of SAP.1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 12 / 45
4 ENSURING TRUST IN THE WORKPLACE
We Strive to
Foster Trust1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 13 / 45
4.1 Diversity and Inclusion, Anti-Discrimination, and Anti-Harassment
4.1.1 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 4.1.2 ANTI-DISCRIMINATION AND
SAP behaviors reflect our values and inspire ANTI-HARASSMENT
appreciation for all aspects of diversity and We embrace and encourage different perspectives.
inclusion. We are made stronger by our unique combination
of diverse characteristics, including but not limited
At SAP, every person must be treated with dignity to, culture, race, ethnicity, age, gender, sexual ori-
and respect. We proactively promote diversity, entation, gender identity or expression, physical
inclusion, and social justice and work to ensure or mental ability, and different work-life situations.
that our workforce reflects gender parity and the We make every effort to ensure that all stages
demographics of the regions where we have of the employee lifecycle are inclusive to enable
employees. We commit ourselves to be respectful, employee success, hold leaders accountable,
professional, compliant, inclusive, and to foster and build a diverse environment – both internally
employee engagement, spark innovation, and drive and among our ecosystem.
customer success.
Our priority is to provide a work environment
The Global Diversity & Inclusion Office is at hand where employees, suppliers, customers, and part- We encourage you to report to the Global People
for any related questions. ners can be confident that their integrity, dignity, Compliance Office any concern or behavior that is
rights, health, safety, and well-being are valued and inconsistent with our values and the regulations out-
respected. Therefore, we commit ourselves to a lined in the SAP Global Anti-Discrimination Policy via
workplace free from discrimination, harassment, Speak Out at SAP or PeopleCompliance@sap.com.
bullying, mobbing, or retaliation.
MORE INFORMATION
As exemplars for our “How We Run” behaviors,
SAP Global Anti-Discrimination Policy
we all must act as role models.1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 14 / 45
4.2 Healthy Organization
SAP’s purpose to make the world run better and
improve people’s lives includes caring for the
health, safety, and well-being of everyone at SAP.
Conditions in which people live up to their full
potential – now and in the future of work – are
mainly defined by an organization’s culture, mind-
set, and leadership style. We believe that there is
no organizational health without individual health.
SAP and our leaders take ownership for work-
places and a caring culture that fosters physical
health, safety, and mental well-being. Employees
are empowered to take care of their health with
company programs and offerings.
We encourage you to get involved and shape our
caring culture and working conditions by using
feedback opportunities to “Tell It Like It Is” and
to help us improve where needed. Our success Our Global Health, Safety & Well-Being team as so, we enable the entire organization to be a role
is tracked through the Business Health Culture part of the Future of Work organization – together model for safe, healthy, and sustainable people
Index (BHCI) and the Stress-Satisfaction Index, with partners in HR, Real Estate and Facilities, management.
measured by regular employee surveys. Occup ational Safety, Physical Security, and Sus-
tainability – provides information, educ ation, and
MORE INFORMATION
support to foster a healthy working culture and a
SAP Global Health and Safety Policy
supportive environment for all employees. In doing1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 15 / 45
4.3 Conflicts of Interest
4.3.1 PERSONAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
We respect your personal interests and your private
life. We also expect that you are loyal to our com-
pany and act in the interest of SAP. If your private
or financial interests or relations collide with those
of SAP or may be perceived to collide with SAP’s
interest, a potential conflict of interest arises.
Potential conflicts of interest can arise from
many situations.
Even the appearance of a conflict of interest can
be problematic and must be avoided at all times.
You are responsible for disclosing any potential
conflicts of interest, actual or perceived, as early
as possible or as soon as you become aware. Seek
advice and, if warranted, approval from the Office
of Ethics & Compliance (OEC). If any material CONFLICTS OF INTEREST – PERCEIVED OR ACTUAL
changes occur after approval – for example, the
duration or tasks of any secondary activities Secondary Activities
change or the amount of investment increases – External Boards or Advisory Positions
you must proactively disclose these changes for
Personal Relationships
further review and approval.
SAP PERSONAL
Financial Investments
While there is no exhaustive list of such situations,
potential conflicts of interest typically arise from
the following scenarios.1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 16 / 45
4.3.2 SECONDARY ACTIVITIES of SAP. A competitor is not limited to multinational
A secondary activity, whether paid or unpaid, must technology companies; any entity, of any size, can
not negatively impact either your ability to work for be a competitor if it provides similar software or
SAP or your performance. Prior to starting a sec- services to anything provided by SAP. The OEC
ondary activity outside of SAP, you must ensure that determines who is classified as a competitor, in
there is no conflict of interest. Refer to SAP One to alignment with other relevant functions.
determine whether a formal secondary activity dec-
laration is required for your country and the process Secondary activities for you or your family
for disclosure. If no specific process is required, dis- You should use caution when you or any family
close your secondary activity to your manager and members engage in your own business activities
the Office of Ethics & Compliance (OEC). if they are closely related to SAP’s business. You
must always ensure that these activities do not
Secondary activities for competitors conflict with the rightful interests of SAP and
Any activity for an SAP competitor is prohibited. adhere to these requirements:
This includes, but is not limited to, secondary • While working at SAP, you must not pursue Secondary activities for customers, partners,
employment and any other activities such as business that conflicts with the interests of SAP. and suppliers
assuming any board seat, advisory, or supervisory • You must not directly or indirectly exploit any We discourage any secondary activity for an
role; performing any marketing or sales activities business opportunity available to SAP for your SAP customer, partner, or supplier. If you want
for competitors or their products and services; own benefit or the benefit of others. to pursue such an activity, you must get prior
or working as an independent party in a contract, written approval from your manager and the
as a consultant; or in any other capacity for a com- If you develop or sell your own or third-party prod- OEC. The OEC determines whether the activity
petitor. You must not function directly or indirectly ucts, or perform services where SAP offers or is falls within SAP’s best interests.
or carry out any activity that assists in the market- planning to offer similar products or services, you
ing or sale of products or services of a competitor must get prior written approval from your manager
and the OEC.1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 17 / 45
4.3.3 BOARD OF DIRECTORS, CORPORATE directly or indirectly result or could result in an determines who or what is classified as a com -
OFFICER, OR ADVISORY POSITIONS WITH actual or perceived conflict of interest in terms pe titor in alignment with other relevant functions.
OTHER COMPANIES of your loyalty or preferential treatment towards
Positions as board directors, corporate officers, or SAP. If the company becomes a competitor and Positions with a customer, partner, or supplier
consultants are considered a secondary activity its status or relationship with SAP changes, you Regardless of your position at SAP, you must
and require prior written approval from the Office must immediately resign from the position. obtain prior written approval from your manager
of Ethics & Compliance (OEC). Any activity that and the OEC before accepting a board of directors,
involves decision making or advisory services, Positions with a competitor corporate officer, or advisory position with a
or that is linked to a role within a supervisory body You are prohibited from joining the board of direc- customer, partner, or supplier of SAP. The OEC
for an SAP customer, partner, or supplier is dis- tors or holding a position as a corporate officer or determines whether the activity is within SAP’s
couraged and is reviewed with scrutiny by the OEC. an advisor within a competitor of SAP because this interests.
If the OEC grants approval, your additional role directly harms SAP’s interests. This also applies
must not affect your loyalty to SAP. You must to any company that promotes or markets products
excuse yourself from voting in decisions that and services for a competitor of SAP. The OEC1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 18 / 45
4.3.4 PERSONAL RELATIONSHIPS Inform HR and the Office of Ethics & Compliance Occasionally, it may happen that you will interact
It is generally accepted that your family and close (OEC) of any situations that affect you and that with family members or close personal contacts
personal contacts (for example, good friends) can could be perceived as a personal conflict of who work for an SAP customer, partner, or supplier.
work for SAP, our customers, partners, suppliers, interest so that appropriate steps can be taken This collaboration can occur, for example, during
and competitors. Be aware, however, that such to protect you, SAP, and the employees involved. sales negotiations, consulting projects, and pro-
circumstances can lead to personal conflicts curement. This is a conflict of interest for you, your
of interest. Disclose to HR and the OEC any situations that family member, and your close personal contact
affect you where there is a family relation, life at the customer, partner, or supplier. Many of these
Personal relationships that might affect partnership, or close personal connection between third parties include a conflict-of-interest clause in
the interests of SAP and its employees you and a senior leader (that is, for the purposes their contracts, and you are obliged to notify them
Your family and close personal contacts may be of the Code, a T4-level people manager or above) of any potential conflict of interest. It is therefore
employed by SAP if there is no actual, possible, to avoid even the appearance of preferential or mandatory for you to disclose such relationships
or perceived conflict of interest. For that reason, disadvantageous treatment. immediately to your manager and to the OEC.
we adhere to the following: You must also never use your influence to secure
• Neither direct nor indirect disciplinary reporting Personal relationships with customers, a job at an SAP customer, partner, or supplier
lines between family members or close personal partners, suppliers, and competitors for a family member or close personal contact,
contacts are permitted. If such a situation arises, If your family and close personal contacts work, regardless of how the person became aware of the
one party may be required to change jobs within or seek to work, for a customer, partner, supplier, position. The required recruitment procedures
SAP. or competitor of SAP, you must make certain that of the SAP customer, partner, or supplier must
• Family members and close personal contacts these relationships do not exert any undue influence. be followed.
must not participate in business or employment In particular, you must not share confidential infor-
decisions that may benefit or damage the other mation or allow them to impact your objectivity
employee. This includes hiring, evaluations, in the decision-making process.
promotions, compensation, work assignments,
and disciplinary actions, for example.1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 19 / 45
4.3.5 FINANCIAL INVESTMENT IN OTHER
COMPANIES
You must not have any financial interest in the
businesses of customers, partners, suppliers,
or competitors of SAP, where this could lead
to a conflict of interest with SAP or create the
appearance of such a conflict. A conflict of
interest relating to a financial interest is present
especially if:
• Within the context of your employment at SAP,
you have influence on SAP-related decisions
regarding a customer, partner, supplier, or
competitor that could potentially be used
for personal financial gain.
• You have a capital stake in an SAP customer,
partner, supplier, or competitor that gives you
influence on decisions made at the customer,
partner, supplier, or competitor and that you
potentially could use to gain a financial
advantage.
We expect that you are loyal to our company
and act in the interest of SAP.1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 20 / 45
4.4 Protection of SAP Assets 4.5 Internal Gift Giving
We all use various tangible and intangible SAP Before ordering goods and services, make sure Giving a gift is a nice way to express appreciation
assets to help us perform our work. These assets you have the necessary spending authority. You and thanks to a person or group. However, gifts
are vital to support SAP business both internally must order goods or services on behalf of SAP between colleagues or teams are considered private
and externally, and as such, you need to look after only for business purposes and to fulfill your work matters, and in general, you should not expect to
them and manage them appropriately. You must requirements. SAP does not permit ordering for be reimbursed.
commit to guard against waste, abuse, or attacks private use or for use by family and close personal
on these assets and use them only for the purpose contacts.
MORE INFORMATION
for which they were purchased in our business
Global Guidance on Gift Giving (Internal Gifts)
environment. Once assets are obsolete or no longer If in doubt, contact the Global Security, Global IT
required, you must return the assets to SAP. Asset Management, or Global Procurement teams.
Always keep in mind that the assets belong to
MORE INFORMATION
SAP and were purchased for business purposes.
SAP Global Security Policy
SAP Global IT Asset Management Policy
SAP Global Procurement Policy1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 21 / 45
5 ENSURING TRUST IN OUR BUSINESS
We Follow
the Law and
Regulations1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 22 / 45
At SAP, we all have a personal responsibility
to uphold and ensure the letter and spirit of
our Code in our individual roles every day. It is
important that we are aware of, and never inten-
tionally violate, relevant laws and regulations.
Violating relevant laws, regulations, or this Code,
or encouraging others to do so, exposes SAP
to risk, including risk to our reputation, and
there-fore may result in disciplinary action up
to and including termination of employment.
Violations of laws or regulations may also result
in legal proceedings and penalties including, in
some circumstances, civil and criminal penalties
that could affect us personally and professionally
in addition to a risk of adverse consequences
to SAP.
We all have a personal responsibility to uphold and
ensure the letter and spirit of our Code.1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 23 / 45
5.1 Fraud 5.2 Organizational Conflicts of Interest
Our commitment to honesty and integrity demands Organizational Conflicts of Interest (“OCI”) can
that we prevent, counter, and investigate fraud arise when existing SAP relationships create an
wherever it occurs. Fraud can have a devastating actual or potential conflict of interest for SAP on
effect on our company and our environment by a government contract. It also can arise when the
destroying trust, resulting in significant financial nature of the work to be performed by SAP creates
loss and other long-term business repercussions. a situation of actual or potential conflict of interest
Fraud is misrepresenting or concealing the truth relating to another government contract that
to cause a loss of property or money to another SAP has or is pursuing.
person or SAP. This may include, for example, theft
of materials or supplies, falsifying expense claims, SAP may have access to a competitor’s cost or
or improper reporting of financial transactions other proprietary information if that competitor is
and resource allocation. a subcontractor on a government contract, which
could provide an unfair competitive advantage
We expect you, as well as our partners, suppliers, when competing on another government contract.
and customers, to report immediately any instances
of fraud, either suspected or actual, to the Office If SAP participates in a government procurement
of Ethics & Compliance (OEC) or through our process that may give rise to an actual or potential avoid, neutralize, or mitigate the actual or potential
reporting channels, such as Speak Out at SAP. OCI, you must consult both SAP Global Government OCI, and that has been properly documented. If
This helps us to prevent losses and to reduce Affairs and the Office of Ethics & Compliance (OEC) you are concerned that a potential OCI may exist,
fraud in the future. for advance review and approval of the bid. Although you must disclose this concern to the OEC.
an OCI may exist, participation in procurement
is possible if the government contracting officer
agrees that sufficient actions are undertaken to1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 24 / 45
5.3 Bribery and Corruption
We Win the Right Way! This means that you may not offer, promise, Bribery may take many forms under the guise
We have zero tolerance for all forms of bribery and receive, or give anything of value to improperly of common business or social practices. If you
corruption. We will forgo business opportunities influence decision making or an action. This suspect potential bribery, you must respond in an
rather than pay bribes or facilitate corruption. requirement applies not only to every one of us appropriate manner (see the “Speak Out” section
at SAP but also to individuals and companies of this Code). If in doubt, consult the Office of
This approach is fully supported by the SAP working with or on behalf of SAP, including those Ethics & Compliance (OEC).
Executive Board and the senior leadership team. with close personal connections to the recipient.
We work closely with our ecosystem to achieve
5.3.1 GENERAL INFORMATION AND The offering and acceptance of any benefits must our goal of making the world run better. However,
PROVISIONS meet the following basic principles: third parties can increase our risks particularly
We observe all applicable anticorruption treaties • Serve a legitimate business purpose (that is, regarding corruption and bribery. To avoid any
and laws of the countries in which we do business. encourage or improve a business relationship) illegal act, all business transactions through a
without the intention of an unfair advantage member of our ecosystem must be in full com-
Giving and receiving benefits (including money, • Observe the applicable Value Limits for country, pliance with all applicable laws, rules, regulations,
gifts, meals, and invitations to events) can help to format, and specific target group as published and policies. We depend on reputable business
build good working relationships and goodwill on SAP One partners that behave fairly, ethically, and correctly
among companies and individuals. However, they • Ensure adherence to all applicable laws and in all business activities.
may also be perceived as an improper advantage internal policies
and raise concerns regarding our integrity and • Be made in a transparent manner
MORE INFORMATION
independence. They can also create a conflict of
Value Limits
interest (or the appearance of impropriety) and
even violate laws. SAP Supplier Code of Conduct
SAP Partner Code of Conduct1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 25 / 45
5.3.2 MEALS AND INVITATIONS TO EVENTS 5.3.3 GIFTS In some contexts, and in some countries in a busi-
You may offer or accept meals and invitations to In general, you may offer or accept gifts and gifts ness relationship, it is customary to exchange gifts
events, provided they meet the above-mentioned in kind to or from current or prospective custom- of higher value. In these cases, you may accept these
basic principles. ers, suppliers, competitors, or partners if the gifts in the name of SAP but immediately hand
above-mentioned basic principles are met and them over to the Office of Ethics & Compliance
When you offer meals and invitations to third exclusions below are followed. (OEC) to be used for the wider benefit of SAP
parties, you must adhere to the policies for employees or as a donation to a good cause.
business events and hospitality. No gifts may be offered or accepted with a value You may not personally keep these gifts.
higher than that identified in the Value Limits
The event type (on-site or virtual, business, published on SAP One.
MORE INFORMATION
or hospitality); the invited guests (government
SAP Global Policy on Interactions with
officials, special guests, and accompanying Gifts to government officials or public sector
Government Officials
persons); and timing (parties in a competitive employees are strictly prohibited, as are gifts
bid or sales cycle) influence whether the meal to customers during a competitive sales cycle. Value Limits
or invitation is allowed.
MORE INFORMATION
SAP Global Business and Hospitality
Event Policy
SAP Virtual Event Standard
SAP Global Policy on Interactions with
Government Officials
Value Limits1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 26 / 45
5.3.4 FACILITATION PAYMENTS AND 5.3.5 CORPORATE SPONSORSHIPS, We never engage in sponsorship activities, make
CASH OR CASH EQUIVALENTS MEMBERSHIPS, AND DONATIONS donations, or use memberships for improper
The offer or acceptance of cash or cash equiva- SAP might occasionally engage in sponsorship purposes to influence a business decision or those
lents (for example gift cards, vouchers, checks, activities with other organizations to support our actions that are contrary to applicable laws, regu-
or gift certificates) is not permitted. purpose and in return for legitimate commercial lations, and our policies. The engagement in all
benefits such as branding rights and hospitality. three of these activities requires approval through
Facilitation or “grease” payments are also We also make donations to support charitable the official process, up to and including approval
prohibited. causes. by the Office of Ethics & Compliance (OEC).
As a large and diverse global company, we are To avoid even the appearance of inappropriate
a member of many trade associations, coalitions, influence, we reject sponsorship activities with,
and professional societies that represent the inter- or donation requests from customers and their
ests of the technology industry and the broader families and close personal contacts during a
business community. We also advocate on public competitive sales cycle.
policy issues of importance to SAP and the
communities we serve.1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 27 / 45
5.4 Artificial Intelligence
SAP believes that artificial intelligence (AI) has the The policy is based on the SAP Guiding Principles
potential to unlock boundless potential for busi- for Artificial Intelligence:
nesses, governments, and society. As with similar • We are driven by our values.
innovations or technological advancements, AI • We design for people.
also has the potential to create economic, political, • We enable business beyond bias.
and social challenges, depending upon how it is • We strive for transparency and integrity in all
used and implemented. that we do.
• We uphold quality and safety standards.
We are committed to comply with all legislation • We place data protection and privacy at our core.
in this regard. We are also committed to the ethical • We engage with the wider societal challenges
development, deployment, and sale of SAP devel- of AI.
oped AI systems. Our Global AI Policy defines a
group-wide minimum standard for the develop-
MORE INFORMATION
ment, deployment and sale or use of SAP AI
SAP Global Artificial Intelligence (AI) Ethics Policy
applications and solutions, including assignment
of clear responsibilities within SAP. SAP Guiding Principles for Artificial Intelligence
SAP Global Human Rights Commitment
Statement1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 28 / 45
5.5 Intellectual Property, Confidential Information,
and Personal Data and Privacy Rights
SAP is a trusted leader in driving business trans- 5.5.2 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION help protect the fundamental rights of everyone
formation and value through technology innova- The exchange of information is a vital part of every whose data is processed by SAP, whether they are
tion. We are all responsible for protecting the business. Before sharing any SAP information, you customers, suppliers, partners, prospects, employ-
intellectual property, confidentiality, integrity, need to evaluate the appropriate classification. It is ees, or applicants. Therefore, all of us must respect
and availability of confidential, personal, and appropriate to share publicly available information applicable data protection and privacy rights when
proprietary information and data, no matter if it about SAP. For exchange of all other information, processing personal data during our daily work.
belongs to SAP, us as employees, or others. We either by SAP or a third party, we require a nondis-
must ensure that personal data is processed closure agreement (NDA) or other appropriate You are responsible for ensuring that all practices
according to data protection and privacy rules agreement. involving the processing of personal data within
and regulations worldwide. The respective experts the course of your work comply with applicable
at Global Legal, especially the Cyber, Litigation, You should also avoid being exposed to confiden- laws and internal regulations. You are required to
and IP teams; Global Security; and Global Data tial information of third parties in the course of handle all personal data that could be accessed
Protection & Privacy are at hand to guide us in your business unless necessary. within the scope or your role with strict confiden-
this endeavor. tiality, and not to use this data without authorization.
Processing means any operation that is performed
MORE INFORMATION
5.5.1 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY on personal data, whether or not by automated
SAP Global Nondisclosure Agreement/
SAP IP is one of our most valuable assets. This means. This includes collecting, recording, organi-
Confidentiality Policy
includes confidential information, patents, copy- zing, structuring, storing, adapting or altering, using,
SAP Global Security Policy
rights, trademarks, and trade secrets. Therefore, disclosing by transmission or dissemination,
it is vital that you take appropriate steps to protect or otherwise making available, in alignment or
SAP IP. It is also important that you respect the IP 5.5.3 PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA combination, restriction, erasure, or destruction.
rights of third parties, including our competitors, AND PRIVACY RIGHTS
and avoid unauthorized use. SAP is committed to and strives to protect the
MORE INFORMATION
rights of individuals, particularly the right to data
SAP Global Data Protection and Privacy Policy
protection and privacy, strengthening our reputa-
MORE INFORMATION
tion as a sustainable and trustworthy partner in
SAP Global IP Policy
the market. We have implemented safeguards to1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 29 / 45
5.6 Insider Trading and Inside Information
Except in circumstances where the prohibition
of insider dealing applies, you may decide at your
personal discretion whether to dispose of or
acquire SAP SE or an SAP subsidiary’s shares or
bonds or their derivatives. However, to avoid any
implication that you are involved in insider trading,
the SAP Executive Board urgently appeals to all of
us not to trade in SAP SE or SAP subsidiary’s shares
or bonds or their derivatives during the official
blackout periods. You are asked to c omply with this
(legally nonbinding) appeal. D eviations from this
guideline should be made only in emergencies,
for example, where an employee has a sudden
unexpected cash requirement. Cases of doubt
should be discussed with the SAP SE Capital
Market Compliance team beforehand.
If you have questions in this regard, especially
about capital market or insider law or the blackout
period, contact the SAP SE Capital Market Com-
In numerous jurisdictions, publicly traded financial You must ensure that when trading in publicly pliance team.
instruments such as shares and bonds, and their traded financial instruments of SAP SE or SAP-
derivatives, are subject to strict statutory rules. listed subsidiaries, customers, suppliers, competi-
MORE INFORMATION
These regulations prohibit the unlawful disclosure tors, or partners, you do not do so based on inside
SAP Global Insider Regulations Policy
of inside information and its use in trading. information, and you must not unlawfully disclose
inside information.1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 30 / 45
5.7 Financial Statements, Disclosures, and Internal
Accounting Controls
Accurate, complete, and reliable records are c rucial All parties involved need to ensure that these MORE INFORMATION
to our business to avoid reputational and/or finan- records are made secure and readily available to
SAP Group Accounting Guidelines
cial damages. We are committed to maintain accu- those with a need to know the information on a
SAP Global Revenue Recognition Guideline
rate company records and accounts to ensure timely basis to fulfill internal and external require-
compliance with applicable legislations, tax rules, ments. All company records must be complete,
ethical business practices, and to prevent fraudu- accurate, and reliable in all material respects. There
lent activities. We are responsible to ensure that is never a reason to make false or misleading
the information we record, process, and analyze entries. Undisclosed or unrecorded funds, pay-
is accurate and is recorded in accordance with ments, or receipts are inconsistent with our
applicable legal or accounting principles, applying business practices and are prohibited.
SAP’s policies and guidelines. Internal controls
need to be in place. Corporate Financial Reporting is at hand for
comprehensive guidance.1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 31 / 45
5.8 Export Controls and Trade Sanctions
Export control laws regulate exports, re-exports,
and in-country transfers of items (including soft-
ware) that have both military and commercial
application. These laws are intended to control
and restrict the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction. They address national security and
other concerns, for example, civil-military fusion
and human rights abuses. Provisions of SAP soft-
ware and services are within the scope of these
regulations regardless of how they are delivered.
Trade sanctions impose restrictions on certain
countries, regions, entities, or individuals for vari-
ous economic, diplomatic, and national security
reasons. The scope of trade sanctions can range
from comprehensive prohibition to do business Therefore, we follow such laws and regulations, For questions or concerns, contact the Export
to specific economic and financial measures. including without limitation the laws of Germany, Control Legal team.
Because of the risk associated with these trade the European Union, the United States, and appli-
sanctions and as a matter of corporate policy, cable local regulations and obligations as stated in
MORE INFORMATION
SAP products and services are not available in applicable documents, which can be found on the
SAP Global Export and Sanctions Compliance
certain countries and regions. Furthermore, SAP Export Control SharePoint.
Policy
products and services cannot be sold to entities
and individuals with whom transactions are
prohibited in accordance with any applicable
sanctioned party lists.1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 32 / 45
5.9 Anti-Money Laundering and Commitment
to Combating the Financing of Terrorism
Money laundering and financing of terrorism in these cases. For this reason, SAP does not such transactions undermines our integrity, dam-
are global issues with far-reaching and serious accept cash transactions of €10,000 and above. ages our reputation, and can expose SAP and all
consequences. However, money laundering is not limited to cash of us to severe sanctions.
transactions. Complex commercial transactions
Money laundering is the process of converting ille- may hide financing of criminal activity such as SAP forbids engagement in transactions that facili-
gal proceeds so that funds are made to appear terrorism, illegal narcotics trade, bribery, and tate money laundering and financing of terrorism.
legitimate. Very often, this is attempted through fraud. They may also hide the origin of the funds We take affirmative steps to detect and prevent
cash transactions, as the payer is harder to identify or their use in these activities. Involvement in unacceptable or illegal forms of payment and finan-
cial transactions. Anti-money laundering laws of
many countries and international organizations
require transparency of payments and the identity
of all parties to transactions. We observe all appli-
cable anti-money laundering and combating ter-
rorist financing laws of the countries in which we
do business. We will conduct business only with
reputable customers and business partners
involved in legitimate business activities and
transactions.1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 33 / 45
6 ENSURING TRUST WITH OUR ECOSYSTEM
We Commit to
Our Ecosystem1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 34 / 45
6.1 Business Relation- 6.2 Contractual Changes and
ships with Organizations Unauthorized Commitments
We do not maintain business relationships Transparency in business relationships is crucial approved in advance, and ultimately incorporated
with organizations that are themselves, or are to the success of SAP. Our business partners and into written agreements that cover the full under-
supporters of, antisocial forces, terrorists, or investors expect us to operate in a fair and trans- standing of all involved parties. All parties should
criminal groups. parent manner. To further our goal of transparency, be aware of the entire understanding of our
we must make sure that commitments to our busi- agreements.
ness partners are accurate, truthful, appropriately
You must not agree to any changes, qualifications,
or amendments to SAP contracts or general terms
and conditions, whether by supplementary agree-
ment, side letter, or otherwise, without proper
approval. Also, any other unauthorized commit-
ments are strictly prohibited.
Any of these actions made without proper over-
sight or internal controls could lead to accounting
and financial errors and irregularities and could
expose SAP to potentially fraudulent activities.1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 35 / 45
6.3 Reciprocity Deals 6.4 Conduct with Customers
We must ensure that we do not enter reciprocity 6.4.1 BOYCOTTS a problem if SAP has such a strong position in the
deals in which SAP accepts goods and services An agreement with a customer, supplier, competi- market concerned that the customer is dependent
from another company only on the condition tor, or partner of SAP not to conduct business with, on its contractual relationship with us.
that the other company obtains SAP products or to not deliver goods or provide services to any
or services in exchange. other customer, supplier, competitor, partner, or 6.4.2 EXCLUSIVE CONTRACTS
service provider, is unlawful. Therefore, you must You must not ask customers to buy products and
be extremely careful if you discuss with one of our services exclusively from us as SAP or to refrain
suppliers the competitive terms of another sup- from buying the products of a competitor if this
plier. Discussions of this sort raise suspicion of would impact competition in the market.
an unlawful understanding. A unilateral decision
not to sell to a particular customer can become1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 36 / 45
6.5 Conduct with Suppliers
6.5.1 GENERAL Accordingly, you must not coerce any supplier SAP considers the awarding of any contract based
Guided by the Global Procurement Organization, to buy SAP products in return for SAP’s purchase on the long-term cost to SAP, including the costs
we must govern our conduct with suppliers by of that supplier’s goods or services. Naturally, associated with defective goods and services,
sound judgment and absolute integrity. The most however, you may seek to sell products to our as well as the value of the long-term business
important consideration is the upholding of suppliers as you do to any other customer. relationship with SAP suppliers.
SAP’s interests.
Relationships with our suppliers often include Before approving invoices for goods or services,
We must ensure that SAP’s suppliers comply access to trade secrets and suppliers’ know-how. ensure that you have verified that those goods
with the legal requirements in the country of In that regard, you must exercise the utmost care or services have been provided.
manufacture and country of sale. and ensure compliance with the Code. Do not pass
on information concerning a supplier’s problems 6.5.3 EXTERNAL CONSULTANTS
or shortcomings to any other supplier or partner When engaging external consultants, you must
or any other person outside of SAP. ensure that:
• Commission and consulting contracts are always
6.5.2 BIDS, ESTIMATES, AND PROOF concluded in writing
OF SERVICES AND GOODS • Payments are made only for activities that are
We must ensure that all qualified suppliers are usually remunerated and are lawful
fully and equally notified of SAP’s technical and
commercial bid requirements. The same applies
MORE INFORMATION
to any details, changes, and additions to these
SAP Global Procurement Policy
requirements subsequently provided.
SAP Supplier Code of Conduct1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 37 / 45
6.6 Conduct with Competitors
6.6.1 GENERAL
One of the most serious infringements of the
provisions of competition law is the existence of
an understanding between competitors. Agree-
ments and understandings amongst competitors
about pricing, conditions of sale, volume of pro-
duction, or the sharing of markets are strictly
unlawful. You must not participate in agreements
or understandings of this nature. The Field Legal
team can provide detailed guidance in your day-
to-day business.
6.6.2 PRICE FIXING AMONG COMPETITORS
All forms of price fixing among competitors are
forbidden. This ban also includes all agreements
and understandings that only indirectly affect prices
or other conditions of sale, such as discounts. You
must not participate in setting maximum and 6.6.3 COMPETITIVE RESTRICTIONS Contact with competitors
minimum prices or exchanging information about Joint ventures, collaboration agreements, and You must not discuss internal matters with com-
future pricing models with competitors. In indi- mergers among competitors can affect free petitors. This includes matters such as pricing and
vidual cases, it may be necessary – as part of a competition. In many cases, they require official conditions of sale, costs, overviews of the market,
reseller agreement – to provide information to approval. Often their legality also must be checked organizational processes, or other confidential
the resale partner, who may also be a competitor, in multiple systems of law because they can have information, from which competitors could draw
about the future pricing model so that internal consequences in other countries. Therefore, you competitive advantage over SAP.
licensing payments can be adjusted. You must not must ensure that the Global Legal team checks
convey such information without first checking the legality of such plans as early as possible and,
with the Global Legal team on the implications in any case, before they are implemented.
under competition law.1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 38 / 45
Obtaining competitor information SAP receives a net benefit from competitive Accordingly, you may gather and use nonconfiden-
We at SAP have a legitimate interest in obtaining information only when it is obtained lawfully and tial information about competitors, including
information about competitors and evaluating all ethically. Therefore, we seek to avoid exposure information that can be found on competitors’
published information about its competing com- to competitive information that is confidential, is Web sites.
panies (for example, publications about products otherwise restricted, or has no legitimate source.
and pricing). However, you must not seek to obtain Actual or alleged infringement or misappropriation You always must keep in mind that we are legally
trade secrets or other confidential or secret infor- of competitors’ confidential information or intellec- prohibited from:
mation about a competitor using dishonest means. tual property rights may lead to litigation, which, • Collecting confidential competitive information
in turn, can result in monetary loss and the inability • Making untrue statements about competitors
You must not accept, read, or use information to provide certain products or services to our cus- • Gathering competitive information in breach
about products and plans of competitors that is tomers. In addition, actual or alleged infringement of a contract
identified or identifiable as confidential informa- or misappropriation may also damage SAP’s • Misrepresenting the relationship to SAP to
tion unless you are authorized by the competitor reputation as a trustworthy business partner. obtain competitive information
to do so. • Violating the copyrights of a competitor
• Hiring third parties to engage in such practices1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 39 / 45
6.7 Conduct with Partners
Partners are very important to our company. Our If a partner is also a customer, supplier, or com-
partners serve as our ambassadors and support petitor of SAP, you must also observe this Code’s
our varied business interests. That is why we must rules concerning customers, suppliers, and com-
trust our partners, be loyal, and treat every partner petitors. For any questions related to conduct
with equality and equity. Presenting a consistent with partners, contact the Partner Ecosystem
and aligned message is in the best interest of Success organization.
SAP and our partners.
MORE INFORMATION
You must present our partners with equal
SAP Partner Code of Conduct
opportunities, always be objective, and provide
transparency. Ensure that you treat them without SAP Global Channel Operations &
bias or unjust preference. For example, you must Governance Policy
be equitable when handling competing bids from SAP Global Channel Policy
several partners for the same customer. For you
to ensure the best experience for our customers,
every opportunity requires trustworthy collabo-
ration with our partners, thereby creating a
productive environment to deliver a successful
multichannel go-to-market approach.1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 40 / 45
7 ENSURING TRUST BY SOCIETY
We Help the
World Run Better
and Improve
People’s Lives1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 41 / 45
Our purpose to help the world run better and
improve people’s lives is the guiding principle for
our business strategy. As a global leader, we stand
for this higher purpose beyond economic success.
We strive to be a role model of a sustainable com-
pany and enable our customers to create positive
social, environmental, and economic impact within
planetary boundaries. Our efforts focus on creating
a sustainable future for SAP, our customers, and
society in line with our commitment to the United
Nations Global Compact and the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Our purpose is to help
the world run better and
improve people’s lives.1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 42 / 45
7.1 Communication
We must ensure that we communicate clearly, In addition to following all company policies, a Do not disclose internal, confidential, or proprie-
effectively, and responsibly. It safeguards a high general rule to remember when using social media tary information about our business, our suppliers,
standard of dissemination of information con- is to think about the effect of statements that you our partners, or our customers. Review the social
cerning SAP’s business activities, strategy, or make. Keep in mind that these transmissions are media guidelines before posting any material.
other company affairs and ensures that we act permanent and easily transferable and can affect
in accordance with applicable laws and regulations our company’s reputation and relationships with SAP Marketing and SAP Global Communications,
at all times. colleagues, customers, partners, and others. in collaboration with Global Legal counterparts,
provides guidelines to help you when communicat-
Only employees who are expressly authorized Your employment postings on Web sites and social ing about SAP to ensure that statements about our
to communicate on behalf of SAP may engage media platforms may include the fact that you company, products, customers, and partners are
with members of the media, industry analysts, work for SAP, your job title, a high-level job descrip- truthful and defensible.
government representatives, or other influencers. tion, and your general office location. However, no
SAP-related contact with these audiences must specific project or initiative details or proprietary
MORE INFORMATION
be coordinated and authorized by SAP Global software information or names should be included.
SAP Global Communications Policy
Communications. Any contact with the financial
community must be coordinated and authorized
by SAP Investor Relations.
We encourage communication among employees,
customers, partners, and others. Be polite, honest,
and respectful, and always identify yourself and
make clear whether you are speaking on behalf
of yourself or speaking on behalf of SAP.
Social media enables us to learn from and share
information with our stakeholders, as well as
communicate with the public about our company.1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 43 / 45
7.2 Human Rights
You are required to comply with all applicable laws,
regulations, company policies, and fundamental
principles relating to human rights. We also expect
our business partners to share our commitment
to the advancement of human rights and to avoid
complicity in human rights abuses.
We encourage you to raise any questions or concerns
relating to human rights and ask you to report
potential breaches through the various reporting
channels available.
MORE INFORMATION
SAP Global Human Rights Commitment
Statement
We respect, support, and promote human rights We take guidance from the United Nations’ G uiding SAP Partner Code of Conduct
throughout our own business activities as well as Principles on Business and Human Rights to SAP Supplier Code of Conduct
along our value chain. Human rights refer to basic integrate human rights considerations into our
rights and freedoms that belong to every person. standard business practices. We maintain a range
These are recognized in the International Bill of of policies and procedures designed to ensure
Human Rights and the International Labor Organi- that we treat everyone with respect and to include
zation Declaration on Fundamental Principles and actions to mitigate the risk of forced labor, modern
Rights at Work, such as the prohibition of forced slavery, human trafficking, or other human rights
labor, modern slavery, and human trafficking. risks occurring in our own business or along the
value chain.1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 44 / 45
7.3 Corporate Social 7.4 Commitment to Improving Our
Responsibility Environmental Performance
The SAP Corporate Social Responsibility (SAP CSR) Sustainability is an integral part of our purpose
team is responsible for setting and executing SAP’s to help the world run better and improve people’s
CSR strategy focused on bringing to life our pur- lives. SAP is committed to improve and invest in
pose through strategic partnerships and programs the environmental performance of SAP’s value
that deliver sustainable social and ecological impact chain and solutions to respect planetary bound-
and long-term business value. In this function, the aries. Therefore, we conduct business in an envi-
team is fully responsible for managing all corpo- ronmentally responsible manner and comply
rate giving (such as donations) and oversees all with relevant environmental laws, regulations,
volunteerism. and standards.
You must not make funding commitments to poten- We commit to improve our environmental impacts
tial recipients, such as the promise of a donation, and prevent pollution by reducing resource and
before receiving approval through the official water consumption, carbon emissions, energy, and
SAP CSR process. waste, including electronic waste, among others. SAP’s sustainability goals. We can achieve this
To do so, we provide the necessary resources and through sustainable product design and develop-
information to efficiently manage our environmen- ment, efficient use of resources, or other activities
MORE INFORMATION
tal performance and achieve our objectives in the and behaviors that reduce our environmental
SAP Global Corporate Social
SAP Global Environmental Policy. These objectives footprint.
Responsibility (CSR) Policy
and the impact of our operations and solutions
are analyzed, managed, and reported throughout
MORE INFORMATION
their lifecycle.
SAP Global Environmental Policy
We are all responsible to keep environmental pro-
tection in mind when making business decisions
and implement sustainable practices that support1 Introduction 2 Values 3 You 4 Workplace 5 Business 6 Ecosystem 7 Society 45 / 45
7.5 Political Activities
Society is partly determined and shaped by 7.5.2 LOBBYING 7.5.3 MEMBERSHIPS IN PROFESSIONAL
politics and the political activity of its citizens. Policymaking and legislation have a significant OR POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS
impact on our business. We are committed to In principle, we believe that memberships in
7.5.1 PERSONAL POLITICAL ACTIVITY, engaging appropriately in the public policy process professional organizations are worth supporting,
CONTRIBUTIONS, AND COMMUNICATION as an important means of enhancing shareholder as among other things, they provide us with
SAP is proud that we are socially engaged and that value, a fundamental principle for free and the ability to take part in shaping and developing
we participate in the political process. democratic societies. standards and best practices of the profession.
However, we as SAP act very cautiously in our
Your political engagement should take place out- SAP engages with governments around the world political activities. If SAP pays for your member-
side of your working hours. Although individuals on public policy issues that are core to our business. ship in a group that has political affiliation or
may make political contributions, these are not Lobbying is an appropriate way for us to educate appears to be associated with it, you must align
reimbursed by SAP. SAP does not make direct policymakers about the legitimate interests of SAP with SAP Global Government Affairs before becom-
contributions for political purposes to political and to participate in political decision-making pro- ing a member. Of course, you may become a private
parties, politicians, or political organizations other cesses. We believe that by sharing our expertise member in such organization at any time. However,
than through event sponsorships and related and communicating our position on certain topics, SAP does not reimburse any costs or expenses
marketing as allowed by law and specifically we contribute responsibly to policymaking, but
approved by SAP Global Government Affairs these communications must be conducted and For information on corporate memberships,
and the Office of Ethics & Compliance (OEC). reported in compliance with all applicable laws. see the “Corporate Sponsorships, Memberships,
and Donations” section of this Code.
If you are engaged in political activities, make sure It is our policy to comply with the lobbying laws
that this reflects your own personal view and do and restrictions of every jurisdiction where we
MORE INFORMATION
not give the impression that any of these activities conduct business, and to be as transparent as
SAP Global Policy on Interactions with
are connected to SAP. possible in lobbying activities and the engagement
Government Officials
of lobbyists. As the regulation of lobbying activity
varies widely across jurisdictions, a detailed knowl- SAP Global Communications Policy
edge of the legal requirements is needed. Lobbying
activities are therefore managed solely by SAP
Global Government Affairs.Studio SAP | 77965enUS (23/03)
© 2023 SAP SE or an SAP affiliate company. All rights reserved. See Legal Notice on www.sap.com/legal-notice
for use terms, disclaimers, disclosures, or restrictions related to SAP Materials for general audiences.