SAP Supplier Code of Conduct
Version 6.0
December 2023TABLE OF CONTENTS
_______________________________________________
INTRODUCTION
COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS, RULES AND REGULATIONS
Bribery and Corruption
Fair Competition
Securities and Insider Trading
Human Rights
Export Control and Trade Sanctions
Covered Telecommunications Equipment or Services
Regulations for Specific Substances
Software with Artificial Intelligence (AI) Capabilities
LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS STANDARDS
Modern Slavery and Freely Chosen Employment
Child Labor Avoidance
Working Hours
Wages and Benefits
Harassment, Violence and Inhumane Treatment
Non-Discrimination
Freedom of Association
Contracts of Employment
Unlawful Eviction and Deprivation
Security Forces
HEALTH AND SAFETY
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
Accessibility
Diverse and Inclusive Supply Chain
ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS
Environmental Management System (EMS)
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions
Waste
Environmental Standards with impact on Human Rights
Ensuring Compliance
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMPANY RESOURCES
BUSINESS CONDUCT
Conflicts of Interest
Offering and Accepting Anything of Value
Financial Integrity
REPORTING CHANNEL
2INTRODUCTION
Being a trusted partner for our customers, partners, suppliers, and colleagues has always been at the heart of
our business. Ethical business builds trust and helps the world run better. We are committed to the highest
standards of ethical business and expect the same from our ecosystem. Our Codes of Conduct for employees,
partners, and suppliers, are cornerstones of this commitment to integrity.
The SAP Supplier Code of Conduct (“Supplier Code”) summarizes the ethical principles of the SAP Global
Procurement Organization and builds on SAP’s commitment to the International Organization’s (ILO) Core
Labor Rights Conventions, the United Nations Global Compact, and the International Bill of Human Rights. We
take guidance from international frameworks such as the United Nation’s Guiding Principles (UNGPs) and the
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises on Responsible Business Conduct to integrate human rights
considerations into our standard business practices, policies, and processes.
The following guidelines set forth the framework of acceptable conduct SAP expects from its contractors,
consultants, suppliers, vendors, agents, and all other third-party companies that comprise SAP’s supply chain
(“Suppliers”). Therefore, SAP's Suppliers must implement the requirements of this Supplier Code in their own
operations, as well as in their supply chains.
All work performed for SAP must be in full compliance SAP has the right to conduct various types of risk-based
with this Supplier Code and all applicable laws, rules, due diligence on any Supplier at any time, which may
regulations, and policies. For Suppliers who have include requesting information about the Supplier,
employees contracted to work directly for SAP, these requesting copies of its compliance policies and
guidelines must be reviewed with all employees and programs, and gathering certifications and other
subcontractors working on SAP matters. documentation.
We expect our employees and our Suppliers to conduct SAP Suppliers are expected to comply fully with any
themselves in an upright, safe, and professional manner, information requests required by SAP to carry out
to treat others with respect, fairness, and dignity and to due diligence checks, including due diligence
refrain from any action that may be considered a conflict renewal and audit requests.
of interest, while working for and on behalf of SAP. We
In addition, SAP may request Suppliers to conduct
regard our supplier base as a critical and necessary
trainings or interviews with relevant personnel and to
extension of our operations and future success, and we
include any specific provisions in the applicable contract
thank you for continuing to make compliance and
with SAP. Shall there be any remedial measures agreed
integrity a top priority as you work with SAP.
between SAP and a Supplier to achieve necessary level
Failure to comply with the Supplier Code during business of compliance, the Supplier is required to commit to
with SAP will lead to your disqualification as an accepted these in writing via a contract or an amendment to a
Supplier and will eliminate you from consideration of new contract.
business with SAP.
Any change in a Supplier’s ownership, senior
You also commit to the obligation of reporting to SAP any management, corporate structure, business lines or
(suspected) violation of this Supplier Code and any law model, key personnel, subcontractors, or any other factor
or regulation, as you become aware of it. You can do so that might reasonably affect SAP’s risk evaluation must
confidentially and, if desired, anonymously using Speak be communicated promptly.
Out at SAP (see section “Reporting Channel”).
Failure to supply information upon request or not meeting
We expect our Suppliers to confirm that all due diligence requirements may lead to application
subcontractors are equally compliant with our policies rejection or delays.
and Supplier Code.
All work performed for SAP must be in full
compliance with this SAP Supplier Code of
Conduct and all applicable laws, rules,
regulations, and policies.
3COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS, RULES, AND REGULATIONS
As a Supplier, you agree to abide by the terms of SAP’s Supplier Code and acknowledge that compliance with
this Code is required to maintain your status as an SAP Supplier. You agree that all business conducted on
behalf of SAP shall be accomplished in full compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations, and policies. If
local laws are less restrictive than the principles set forth in SAP’s Supplier Code of Conduct Suppliers are
expected to, at a minimum, comply with the Code. If local laws are more restrictive than SAP’s Supplier Code
of Conduct, Suppliers are expected to, at a minimum, comply with applicable local laws.
Bribery and Corruption
work with SAP until a reasonable time after full public
SAP has zero tolerance for all forms of bribery and disclosure has occurred. These restrictions also apply to
corruption. Suppliers shall not make, authorize, or offer family members, friends, and associates. Material
any bribes, kickbacks, or payments of money or anything information includes any information that a reasonable
of value to anyone, including officials, employees, or investor would consider important in a decision to buy,
representatives of any government or public or hold, or sell securities. Such information may include
international organization, or to any other third party financial and key business data; merger, acquisition, or
(public or private sector) for the purpose of obtaining or divestiture discussions; award or information related to the
retaining business, or influencing any other favorable cancellation of a major contract; changes in key
business decision, that is related in any way to SAP. This management; forecasts of unanticipated financial
includes giving money or anything of value to anyone results; significant litigation; or gain or loss of a substantial
when there is reason to believe that it will be passed on customer or supplier.
to a government official or the decision maker at a
customer or potential customer’s company for this
Human Rights
purpose. Suppliers are required to comply with the
German Criminal Code, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Suppliers are expected to respect internationally
Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act, and all applicable local proclaimed human rights according to the expectations
anti-bribery laws. of the UNGPs and all relevant applicable national and
international laws, in particular as they apply to supply
chains and operations. Suppliers must also comply with
Fair Competition
all applicable employment and related laws (including
Antitrust and competition laws are designed to protect those aimed at eradicating modern slavery) and are
consumers and competitors against unfair business expected to meet in full their obligations under such laws
practices and promote and protect healthy competition. and at minimum, Suppliers need to comply with the
SAP is committed to observing the applicable antitrust or provisions of this Code.
competition laws of all nations or organizations, and SAP
expects its Suppliers to comply with all applicable antitrust
Export Control and Trade Sanctions
or competition laws as well. Antitrust or competition laws
vary from country to country, but generally such laws Destination Restrictions: Suppliers shall not provide SAP
prohibit agreements or actions that unreasonably restrain with products or services that are manufactured
trade, are deceptive or misleading, or unreasonably in/provided from countries that are subject to import,
reduce competition without providing beneficial effects to export control and sanction laws, including without
consumers. Such agreements or actions are against the limitation, the laws of the United States, the European
policy of SAP. Union, and Germany. A current list of restricted countries
is available on the SAP website.
Securities and Insider Trading End-User Restrictions: Suppliers shall ensure that the
provisioning of products and services to SAP is not
SAP expects Suppliers to comply with applicable insider
supported by entities and individuals with whom
trading and securities laws governing transactions in the
transactions are prohibited under applicable export
securities of SAP. Securities include common stocks,
control and sanctions laws, including those listed on any
bonds, options, futures, and other financial instruments.
applicable sanctioned party lists (e.g., European Union
Suppliers that possess or have access to material and/or
Consolidated Sanctions List, U.S. Specially Designated
nonpublic information gained through their work with
National (SDN) lists, U.S. Denied Persons List, BIS
SAP may not use that information to trade in SAP
Entity List, United Nations Security Council Sanctions).
securities or the securities of another company to which
the information pertains. Employees of such Suppliers
may not engage in any other action to take advantage of, or
pass on to others, material information gained through
4Covered Telecommunications Equipment or Software with Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Services Capabilities
Suppliers will not supply SAP with any “covered If SAP is supplied with software that has embedded AI
Telecommunications equipment or services” as more capabilities, the Supplier should adhere to all relevant
specifically described in the United States Federal local laws related to ethical and responsible AI while
Acquisition Regulation clause 52.204-25, “Prohibition on developing, deploying, and selling the software.
Contracting for Certain Telecommunications and Video
If there are no locally applicable laws, the Supplier
Surveillance Services of Equipment”.
should have a policy based on the guidelines from
international institutions (e.g., the Institute of Electrical
Regulations for Specific Substances and Electronics Engineers, the Organization for
Economic Co-operation and Development, Council of
Suppliers must adhere to all applicable laws and
Europe). The same applies to the Supplier’s supply
regulations regarding prohibition or restriction of specific
chain: if the Supplier is using third-party software with
substances, including labeling laws and regulations for
embedded AI, the Supplier should ensure that local laws
recycling and disposal. Suppliers are also to adhere to
and/or policy for ethical and responsible AI have been
processes to comply with each agreed-upon customer-
considered while procuring, deploying, and using the
specific restricted and hazardous materials list.
software.
You agree to abide by the terms of
SAP’s Sup plier Code and
acknowled ge that compliance
with this C ode is required to
maintain your status as an SAP
Supplier.
5LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS STANDARDS
Suppliers are committed to uphold the human rights of workers and to treat them with dignity and respect
as understood by international human rights law. SAP respects and upholds the values of the International Bill of
Human Rights and the International Labor Organization's (ILO) Core Labor Rights Conventions and takes guidance
from international frameworks such as the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
(UNGPs) and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises on Responsible Business Conduct. Suppliers are
expected to enforce these labor and human right standards in their own operations and ensure that they are
passed on to their downstream partners in the supplier network. Suppliers must take all
reasonable measures to avoid and/or mitigate any labor and human rights risks and must provide access
to remedy in case of human rights abuses.
Workers shall be allowed at least one day off per seven-
Modern Slavery and Freely Chosen day week (ILO no. 14).
Employment
Suppliers must not use any form of modern slavery or Wages and Benefits
forced, bonded, or indentured labor. All work must be
SAP expects its Suppliers to adhere to minimum wage
voluntary, and workers should be free to leave, or be
laws. All benefits required by local laws must be
terminated from employment with reasonable notice.
provided. Payments must be made regularly and directly
Worker freedoms must not be forfeited, such as by
to workers and overtime must be remunerated at a
withholding documents or restricting movement.
premium rate. Deductions from or withholding of
Suppliers or third parties must not charge illegal fees and
payments must be in alignment with local laws only, and
deductions during recruitment and employment.
workers must have full understanding of the actions
Suppliers will not participate in human trafficking or use
taken. The same goes for advances and loans.
slave labor or prison labor in any part of their supply
chain. All workers (including migrant workers and their Workers must receive information about hours worked,
family rates of pay, and the calculation of legal deductions.
members) shall not be threatened with denunciation to Workers must retain full and complete control over their
authorities to coerce them into taking up or maintaining earnings. Wage deductions as a disciplinary measure, or
employment. to keep workers tied to the employer or to their jobs, are
prohibited. Holding workers in debt bondage, forcing
Suppliers are expected to take all reasonably practicable
them to work in order to pay off a debt, and deception in
steps to ensure that participants in their supply chains do
wage commitments, payment, advances, and loans are
not engage in conduct amounting to modern slavery.
prohibited.
Child Labor Avoidance
Harassment, Violence, and Inhumane
Child labor is not tolerated in any stage of the supply Treatment
chain. Child labor refers to a person working under the
SAP takes a zero-tolerance approach towards
statutory minimum set by the International Labor
harassment, violence and inhumane treatment as
Organization which is 15 years. Suppliers must avoid
defined in ILO 190, including any sexual harassment,
any sort of child labor in their operations as defined by
sexual abuse, corporal punishment, mental or physical
the International Labor Organization (ILO no. 138). If
coercion, or verbal abuse of workers; nor is there to be
local minimum age law specifies a higher age for work,
the threat of any such treatment.
the higher age applies. The use of legitimate workplace
apprenticeship programs, which comply with all laws and
regulations, is supported. Young workers must not do Non-Discrimination
work that is mentally, physically, socially, or morally
Suppliers are expected to be committed to a workplace
hazardous and must be restricted from night shifts with
free of unlawful discrimination. Suppliers shall not
consideration given to educational needs.
engage in discrimination based on culture, race, color,
age, gender, gender identity or expression, sexual
Working Hours orientation, ethnicity, disability, pregnancy, religion,
political affiliation, union membership, or marital status in
Workweeks should not exceed the maximum set by local
hiring and employment practices such as promotions,
law and by the ILO Standards (ILO no. 1). Further, a
rewards, and access to training. In addition, workers or
workweek should not be more than 60 hours per week
potential workers should not be subjected to medical
including overtime which must only be voluntary.
tests that could be used in a discriminatory way.
Exceptions apply to emergency or unusual situations.
6Freedom of Association Unlawful Eviction and Deprivation
Suppliers are to respect the rights of workers to associate There shall be no unlawful eviction and unlawful
freely, join or not join labor unions, seek representation, deprivation of land, forests and waters in the acquisition,
or join workers’ councils in accordance with local laws. construction or any other use of land, forests and waters,
Workers shall be able to communicate openly with the use of which secures the livelihood of a person.
management regarding working conditions without fear of
reprisal, intimidation, or harassment.
Security Forces
SAP expects Suppliers that hire or use private or public
Contracts of Employment
security forces or personnel to provide instruction or
All workers, including migrant workers, shall be provided control to avoid torture and cruel, inhumane, or
with an employment contract in a language they degrading treatment; risks to life or limb; or impairment
understand, clearly indicating their rights and of the freedom of association.
responsibilities regarding all working and employment
conditions prior to deployment, including but not limited
to wages and working hours. Any changes to the
employment contract and the working conditions agreed
upon must be in alignment with local laws and fully
transparent to the migrant worker.
Suppliers are committed to uphold
the human rights of workers and
to treat them with dignity and
respect as understood by
international human rights law.
7HEALTH AND SAFETY
Suppliers recognize that the quality of products and services, consistency of production, and workers’ morale
are enhanced by a safe and healthy work environment. Suppliers must take all reasonable measures to avoid
and/or mitigate any health and safety risks. Suppliers also recognize that ongoing worker input and education
are key to identifying and solving health and safety issues in the workplace.
Suppliers shall prevent worker exposure to potential implement corrective actions to eliminate their causes, and
safety hazards (for example, electrical and other energy facilitate the return of workers to work.
sources, fire, vehicle, and fall hazards) and make sure
Suppliers identify, evaluate, and control worker exposure
that such hazards are mitigated through proper design,
to chemical, biological, and physical agents. When
engineering and administrative controls, preventive
hazards cannot be adequately controlled by engineering
maintenance, and safe work procedures (including
and administrative means, workers are to be provided
lockout-tagout). Where hazards cannot be adequately
with appropriate personal protective equipment.
controlled by these means, workers are to be provided
with appropriate personal protective equipment. Suppliers identify, evaluate, and control worker exposure
to physically demanding tasks, including manual material
Suppliers must identify and assess emergency situations
handling and heavy lifting, prolonged standing, and
and events and minimize their impact by implementing
highly repetitive or forceful assembly tasks. Physical
emergency plans and response procedures, including
guards, interlocks, and barriers are to be provided and
emergency reporting, employee notification and
properly maintained for machinery used by workers.
evacuation procedures, worker training and drills,
appropriate fire detection and suppression equipment, Suppliers provide workers with clean toilet facilities,
adequate exit facilities, and recovery plans. access to potable water, and sanitary food preparation
and storage facilities. Worker dormitories provided by the
Procedures and systems are to be in place to manage,
Supplier, or a labor agent are to be clean, safe, and
track, and report occupational injury and illness,
provide emergency egress, adequate heat and
including provisions to encourage worker reporting,
ventilation, and reasonable personal space.
classify and record injury and illness cases, provide
necessary medical treatment, investigate cases, and
Suppliers must take all reasonable
measures to avoid and/or mitigate
any health and safety risks.
8DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
Suppliers are encouraged to provide an inclusive, healthy, bias-free work environment for their employees.
Suppliers should, as applicable, strive to foster:
• Gender intelligence by offering equal rights for all employees, regardless of gender identity.
• Cross-generational intelligence by employing people of all ages and at every work and career stage.
• Cultural and identity intelligence by empowering many voices to help gain strength from people’s
differences.
Opportunities for differently abled people by focusing on their unique abilities and providing a work environment
that considers the special needs and skills of each employee. Suppliers are encouraged to engage with groups
at heightened risk of becoming disadvantaged or marginalized (vulnerable groups).
Diverse and Inclusive Supply Chain
Accessibility
SAP strives to work with a wide range of high-quality
Suppliers are encouraged to deliver goods and services
social enterprises and diverse Suppliers to drive
that are accessible to everyone, including those with
innovation in its supply chain. SAP is committed to
disabilities.
buying directly from social enterprises and diverse
If accessibility standards – for example, Web Content Suppliers whenever possible. SAP expects Suppliers to
Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 Level AA, included in commit to proactively subcontracting goods and services
US Section 508, and the harmonized EN 301 459 including in their supply chain to a social enterprise or diverse
WCAG 2.1 Level and Germany’s Barrier-Free Information supplier whenever possible.
Technology regulation (BITV) – are applicable for the
Suppliers are required to provide quarterly reports on
goods or services delivered, Suppliers are strongly
their expenditures with diverse subcontractors, itemized
encouraged to take these standards into consideration
according to the subsequent categories: Women-
and meet them.
Owned, Minority-Owned, Veteran-Owned, LGBTQ+
Owned, Small and Medium-sized, Disabled-Owned
Business Enterprises, and other acknowledged diverse
groups.
SAP will review reports for adherence to this code and to
identify improvement opportunities.
Suppliers are encouraged to
provide an inclusive, healthy,
bias-free work environment for
their employees.
9ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS
At SAP, our dedication to environmental responsibility extends beyond compliance. We continuously strive to
mitigate our ecological footprint through our procurement practices. This section delineates the environmental
standards and expectations we have for our suppliers. Adherence to these guidelines is crucial as it
significantly contributes to our collective pursuit of a sustainable and environmentally conscious supply
chain. Environmental responsibility is integral to producing world-class products. Suppliers must take all
reasonable measures to avoid and/or mitigate any environmental risks.
In manufacturing operations, adverse effects on the community, environment, and natural resources must be
continually reduced and minimized, and suppliers are expected to ensure that their operations safeguard the
health and safety of the public. All required environmental permits (for example, discharge monitoring) and
registrations are to be obtained, maintained, and kept current, and their operational and reporting requirements
are to be followed.
Suppliers are expected to contribute to our environmental objectives stated in the SAP Global Environmental
Policy and collaborate with us to improve the environmental performance of SAP and our purchased products
and services. Suppliers acknowledge the SAP Global Environmental Policy by accepting the SAP
Supplier Code of Conduct.
Environmental Management System (EMS)
• Ambition or target to reduce energy consumption
Suppliers are required to implement and maintain an and use renewable energy in own operations
EMS compliant with ISO 14001 or an equivalent through self-production, long-term Power Purchase
standard. This system should encompass energy Agreements (PPAs) or Energy Attribute Certificates
consumption metrics, waste management procedures,
emission control measures, risk management and
mitigation procedures and periodic internal and third- such as Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs). This
party audits. Suppliers should continually improve their can be supported by an ISO 5001 Energy Management
EMS by setting achievable environmental objectives and System, a RE100 commitment, or similar certificates,
targets. accreditations, and commitments.
Minimum requirement: Annual disclosure of renewable
electricity share in the supplier’s own operations.
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions
• Third-party verification of environmental data and
SAP is committed to become net-zero by 2030 along the
reduction efforts is expected.
value chain in accordance with the Science-Based
Target Initiative. To achieve our target and limit global
temperature rise to 1.5°C to mitigate the adverse impacts
of climate change, we must closely collaborate with our
suppliers and rely on their contribution. Therefore, we Waste
require the following from our Suppliers transacting over Suppliers are expected to have a lifecycle
1 million € annually:
perspective and Extended Producer Responsibility
• Established GHG emission target or at least (EPR) to manage resources and waste circularly.
ambition to implement one. This requires
Suppliers must follow the Waste Hierarchy to
measuring, monitoring, and reporting in accordance
properly manage waste: prevent, prepare for
with established standards such as the GHG
reuse, recycle, recover and, the last option,
Protocol.
Minimum requirement: Annual disclosure of Scope disposal. Hazardous Materials, if released to the
1 and scope 2 with a continuous improvement of environment, are to be identified and properly
Scope 3 emissions accounting and reporting. managed. Wastewater and solid waste generated
from operations, industrial processes, and
sanitation facilities are to be monitored, controlled,
10and treated. Air emissions of volatile organic SAP strives to eliminate the consumption of single-
chemicals, aerosols, corrosives, particulates, use plastics. Therefore, Suppliers should make
ozone-depleting chemicals, and combustion by- every effort to eliminate unnecessary packaging
products generated from operations are to be components, replace plastic packaging materials
characterized, monitored, controlled, and treated. with environmentally friendly materials such as
certified recycled paperboard packaging (e.g.,
FSC) and to eliminate Styrofoam material.
Environmental Standards with impact on production of food; b) deny a person access to
Human Rights safe drinking water; c) impede or destroy a
In light of the Minamata Convention on mercury, person´s access to sanitary facilities; or d) harm
Stockholm Convention on persistent organic the health of a person.
pollutants. and Basel Convention on control of
transboundary movements of hazardous wastes Ensuring Compliance
and their disposal, Supplier must avoid causing
SAP will conduct periodic audits to assess
harmful soil change, water pollution, air pollution,
compliance with this section. Non-compliance may
harmful noise emission or excessive water
trigger corrective action, up to and including
consumption which would a) substantially impair
potential termination of the supplier relationship.
the natural foundations for the preservation and
We continuously strive to mitigate
our ecological footprint through
our procurement practices.
11MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Suppliers shall adopt or establish a management system with a scope that is related to the content of this
Code. The management system shall be designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws (incl. human
rights), regulations, and customer requirements related to Supplier operations and products as well as;
conformance with this Code; and identification and mitigation of operational risks related to this Code.
Supplier should also integrate its supply chain into the results of the assessment should be communicated to
management system. It should also facilitate continual relevant decision makers at the Supplier. Suppliers
improvement. Suppliers commit to the statements on establish programs for training managers and workers to
corporate social and environmental responsibility, implement Supplier policies and procedures.
affirming compliance and continual improvement.
Suppliers establish and monitor ongoing processes to
Suppliers hold clearly identified company
assess employees’ understanding of and obtain feedback
representatives responsible for ensuring implementation
on practices and conditions covered by this Code.
and periodic review of the status of the management
Periodic self-evaluations shall be conducted by
systems.
Suppliers to ensure conformity to legal and regulatory
Suppliers identify, monitor, and understand applicable requirements, the content of the Code, and requirements
laws, regulations, and customer requirements. Suppliers related to social and environmental responsibility.
establish a process to regularly and on an ad hoc basis
Suppliers are expected to establish and maintain a
identify the human rights, environmental, health, and
publicly accessible and anonymous complaint procedure
safety and labor practice risks associated with its
for people to report workplace complaints, including
operations and Supplier´s subcontractor´s operations.
human rights and environmental risks and violations.
Supplier should also establish preventative measures for
Suppliers must protect whistleblower confidentiality and
its employees and subcontractors.
prohibit retaliation.
Suppliers determine the relative significance for each
Suppliers establish a process for timely correction of
risk and implementation of appropriate procedural and
deficiencies and creation of documents and records to
physical controls to ensure regulatory compliance to
ensure compliance and conformity, along with
control the identified risks. Suppliers create and maintain
appropriate confidentiality to protect privacy. The
written standards, performance objectives, targets, and
documents and records need to be made available to SAP
implementation plans including a periodic assessment of
upon request.
Supplier performance against those objectives. The
The management system shall be
designed to ensure compliance
with applicable laws, regulations,
and customer requirements
related to Supplier operations and
product.
12RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMPANY RESOURCES
Suppliers are expected to safeguard SAP resources, which include property, assets, intellectual property,
company technology assets (network, phone, internet, software applications, and email systems), trade
secrets, and other confidential, proprietary, and/or sensitive information while performing work for SAP. Use
of SAP resources without proper approvals or for anything other than to perform SAP work activities is strictly
prohibited. Intellectual property rights of SAP must be protected. SAP confidential or sensitive information must
be protected.
Suppliers may only possess such information if they Materials that contain confidential information or that are
need to do so to perform work activities. Suppliers should protected by privacy standards should be stored
not use this information for gain or advantage and should securely and should be shared only internally with those
never share this information without appropriate SAP employees who “need to know”. For example, SAP
approval. All confidential or sensitive information obtain confidential information may include, but is not limited to,
by Supplier must have documented authorization in software and other inventions or developments
place. Inappropriate use of SAP internet or email is (regardless of the stage of development) developed or
strictly prohibited. licensed by or for SAP, marketing and sales plans,
competitive analyses, product development plans,
Suppliers are expected to safeguard confidential pricing, potential contracts or acquisitions, business and
information by not reproducing copyrighted software, financial plans or forecasts, and prospect, customer, and
documentation, or other materials without permission employee information.
and by not transferring, publishing, using, or disclosing it
other than as necessary in the ordinary course of SAP retains the right to monitor its assets and work
business or as directed or authorized. Suppliers should environments in compliance with applicable federal,
observe applicable data privacy standards. state, and local law. We monitor to promote safety,
prevent criminal activity, investigate alleged misconduct
and security violations, manage information systems,
and for other business reasons.
Suppliers are expected to safeguard SAP
resources, which include property,
assets, intellectual property, company
technology assets, trade secrets, and
other confidential, proprietary, and/or
sensitive information while performing
work for SAP.
13BUSINESS CONDUCT
SAP expects Suppliers to compete in a fair and ethical manner for all business opportunities. Suppliers’
employees involved in the sale or licensing of products and services and the negotiation of agreements and
contracts to SAP must ensure that all statements, communications, and representations to SAP are accurate
and truthful.
(ethicalbusiness@sap.com). SAP may require the
Conflicts of Interest Supplier to correct any actual or perceived conflict of
interest at any time during the agreement.
While engaged in work for SAP, Suppliers must exercise
reasonable care and diligence to avoid any actions or
situations that could result in a potential conflict of
Offering and Accepting Anything of Value
interest or the appearance thereof.
Giving and receiving benefits (including money, gifts,
A potential conflict of interest arises when a Supplier’s
meals, and invitations to events) can help to build good
private or financial interests collide with those of SAP or
may be perceived to collide with SAP’s interests. While working relationships and goodwill among companies
there is no exhaustive list of such situations, potential and individuals. However, they may also be perceived as
conflicts of interest typically arise if a Supplier: an improper advantage and raise concerns regarding
integrity and independence. They can also create a
• Employs a current SAP employee or someone with
conflict of interest (or the appearance of impropriety) and
a close personal relationship to an SAP employee
even violate laws.
to perform work for SAP.
• Is partially or fully owned or controlled by a current You may not offer, promise, receive, or give anything of
SAP employee or someone with whom they have a value to improperly influence decision making or an
close personal relationship. action. This requirement applies to every SAP employee
• Has access to SAP’s proprietary information while as well as individuals and companies working with or on
providing goods and services to SAP’s competitors behalf of SAP, including Suppliers and those with close
and uses this information to benefit themselves or a personal connections to the recipient.
competitor.
Suppliers should use discretion and care to ensure that
• Provides services to develop a request for proposal
any benefits, especially those offered to or received by
(RFP) to be issued by SAP and seeks to bid on the
any SAP employee, are reasonable, appropriate,
work covered by that RFP; or
consistent with applicable local laws, and cannot be
• Is engaged or overseen by an SAP employee with
construed or appear to be designed as a bribe or
whom they have a close personal relationship.
improper inducement to influence the recipient and
Suppliers shall not encourage or influence current or secure unfair preferential treatment.
former SAP employees in any manner which would
Suppliers are strictly prohibited to offer or accept benefits
cause them to disclose or provide any confidential,
for or on behalf of SAP.
proprietary, or other restricted information obtained while
employed by SAP to influence SAP’s existing or Suppliers are strongly discouraged from offering a
proposed commercial transactions for the purpose of benefit to any SAP employee.
gaining a commercial advantage.
A general guideline for evaluating whether a benefit is
To avoid any conflict of interest or appearance thereof, appropriate is whether public disclosure would be
SAP may at its sole discretion decide whether former embarrassing to the Supplier or SAP. The offering or
SAP employees (for a period of twelve (12) months acceptance of any expenditure in connection with SAP
following the end of their employment at SAP) who are business must meet the following basic principles:
engaged by a Supplier, may act on behalf of the Supplier
• Serves a legitimate business purpose (that is,
in SAP discussions or be part of the service delivered by
encourage or improve a business relationship)
the supplier to SAP.
without the intention of an unfair advantage,
Suppliers are expected to cooperate with SAP • Does not inappropriately influence, or appear to
investigations and to provide reasonable assistance as influence, any business decision,
requested.
• Must not be offered during any pending bidding or
SAP expects Suppliers to prevent or immediately negotiation process,
disclose, in writing, a conflict of interest or the • Be made in a transparent manner, and
appearance of a conflict of interest as soon as possible • Ensure adherence to all applicable laws and
to SAP’s Office of Ethics & Compliance relevant internal policies.
14• Providing cash, cash equivalents, gift cards (for Financial Integrity
example gift cards, vouchers, checks, or gift
Accurate and reliable financial and business records are
certificates) to SAP employees is strictly prohibited.
of critical importance in meeting SAP’s financial, legal,
Discounts and other privileges offered to an
and business obligations. Suppliers must not have any
employee of SAP as part of private transactions with
false or inaccurate entries in the accounting books or
customers, suppliers, competitors, and partners of
records related to SAP for any reason. Suppliers’
SAP may only be accepted if these are granted to
business records must be retained in accordance with
all SAP employees.
record retention policies and all applicable laws and
regulations.
Suppliers should not knowingly shift an expense to a
different accounting period.
SAP expects Suppliers to compete
in a fair and ethical manner for all
business opportunities.
15REPORTING CHANNEL
The standards of conduct described in the Supplier Code are critical to the ongoing success of SAP’s
relationship with its Suppliers. If you have questions or concerns about compliance or ethics issues while
working for SAP or in SAP’s supply chain, please let us know.
Prevention is best; however, if something does go Speak Out is available online or via the integrated 24x7
wrong, we count on you to speak out. If something helpline which has local language support whether you
doesn’t feel right, look right, or sound right, it probably is are reporting from inside or outside of SAP.
not right.
We know that it can take courage to report an issue. SAP
We expect you to report any (suspected) violation of this does not tolerate any form of retaliation against those
Supplier Code and any law or regulation, as you become who raise concerns in good faith. We equally do not
aware of it. You can do so confidentially and, if desired, tolerate any personal or false attacks aimed at specific
anonymously using Speak Out at SAP. individuals.
SAP does not tolerate any
form of retaliation against
those who raise concerns in
good faith.
16www.sap.com/contactsap
© 2022 SAP SE or an SAP affiliate company. All rights reserved.
No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or for any purpose without the express permission of SAP SE or an SAP affiliate company.
The information contained herein may be changed without prior notice. Some software products marketed by SAP SE and its distributors contain proprietary software components of other software vendors.
National product specifications may vary.
These materials are provided by SAP SE or an SAP affiliate company for informational purposes only, without representation or warranty of any kind, and SAP or its affiliated companies shall not be liable
for errors or omissions with respect to the materials. The only warranties for SAP or SAP affiliate company products and services are those that are set forth in the express warranty statements
accompanying such products and services, if any. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty.
In particular, SAP SE or its affiliated companies have no obligation to pursue any course of business outlined in this document or any related presentation, or to develop or release any functionality
mentioned therein. This document, or any related presentation, and SAP SE’s or its affiliated companies’ strategy and possible future developments, products, and/or platform directions and functionality are
all subject to change and may be changed by SAP SE or its affiliated companies at any time for any reason without notice. The information in this document is not a commitment, promise, or legal obligation
to deliver any material, code, or functionality. All forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. Readers are
cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, and they should not be relied upon in making purchasing decisions.
SAP and other SAP products and services mentioned herein as well as their respective logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of SAP SE (or an SAP affiliate company) in Germany and other
countries. All other product and service names mentioned are the trademarks of their respective companies. See www.sap.com/trademark for additional trademark information and notices.