Siemens Business
Conduct Guidelines
Transform the everyday
siemens.com/BCG
1Business Conduct Guidelines – Contents
Preface 4 Our behavioral 10
principles
A We behave correctly 11
B We respect each other 12
C We create trust 12
Transform 8
D We protect our company 13
the everyday
Our motivation and As managers, 14
E
Ethical Principles we have a special responsibility
Our 16
responsibility
We look after each other 17
F
and ourselves
F1 Basic working conditions 17
F2 Health, occupational safety, and 18
personal security
Our markets: 19
G
we act fairly and reliably
Fair competition: we place integrity at the 19
G1
heart of everything we do
We are successful in fair competition: 23
G2
antitrust law and fair competition
G3 We comply with trade and export 25
control regulations
G4 Collective Action: our commitment to 25
clean markets pays off
2Business Conduct Guidelines – Contents
Our reporting 40
procedures
What to do if there are signs
of possible misconduct
Our company: 26
H
we create trust and protect what
makes Siemens valuable
H1 The Siemens brand: a promise of 26
innovation and quality
Conflicts of interest – 27
H2
we only make business decisions Index 42, 43
in the interest of Siemens
Money laundering and the funding 29
H3
of terrorism – not with us!
H4 Financial integrity – this is how we 30
strengthen the trust placed in us
Insider trading – neither for us, 31
H5
nor for others!
How we responsibly protect our 32
H6
corporate assets
Data protection and privacy – 34
H7
we are aware of our responsibilities Imprint 44
Our portfolio: 35
I
world-class products, services,
and industry solutions
Our partners: 36
J
we work with responsible partners
Our responsibility to society 37
K
and the environment
Our commitment to international 37
K1
agreements and recommendations
K2 Human rights 38
K3 Environment 39
3Business Conduct Guidelines – Preface Dr. Roland Busch
Munich, July 2023
Dear Colleagues,
In recent years, the world has become more and more In these confusing times, clear rules and principles are
complex. Our markets are changing rapidly and even more important. Without excuses or exceptions, we
geopolitical risks have increased. always act ethically, legally, and with the highest integrity
– wherever we do business.
With these great challenges come great opportunities. Our
role is clear: by combining the real world and the digital In our Business Conduct Guidelines, you will find our rules
world, we help our customers become more competitive, and principles and support to help you live them easily
resilient, and sustainable. We work in an ecosystem, with every day. They are the foundation of our compliance
our customers and partners – some of whom are also management system and apply to all of us.
competitors – and within the company.
If you have any questions about the Business Conduct
Guidelines, how to apply them, or if you need support
with ethical issues, please contact the Compliance
Department.
With kind regards,
Your Dr. Roland Busch
4Business Conduct Guidelines – Preface Dr. Roland Busch
“Ethical management and compliance
are non-negotiable. This goes beyond
strict adherence to rules and firmly
places integrity at the core of our culture
and business operations.”
– Dr. Roland Busch
President and CEO of Siemens AG
Dr. Roland Busch
5Business Conduct Guidelines – Preface Annette Kraus & Dr. Andreas C. Hoffmann
“At Siemens, we are united by common
values and the goal of always acting with
integrity and responsibility. The basis for
this is adherence to applicable laws and
internal rules and regulations.”
– Annette Kraus
Chief Compliance Officer of Siemens AG
Dr. Andreas C. Hoffmann
Annette Kraus
6Business Conduct Guidelines – Preface Annette Kraus & Dr. Andreas C. Hoffmann
“At Siemens, integrity is not negotiable. We do business
based on our Business Conduct Guidelines and also by
building alliances against corruption and promoting fair
competition together with numerous organizations and
stakeholders all around the world.”
– Dr. Andreas C. Hoffmann
General Counsel and Head of Legal and Compliance of Siemens AG
Munich, December 2021
Dear Colleagues,
Siemens stands for business integrity all over the world – The Business Conduct Guidelines are our collective code of
this is our premise. It is the expectation we set for ourselves, practice and form the basis of our work. All of us, employees,
our staff, management team and board, but also for our managers and managing board, know the Business Conduct
customers, partners, and all other stakeholders of the company. Guidelines and they form the basis of our commercial dealings.
We achieve commercial success through ethically Should you have questions about the Business Conduct
responsible and dependable actions, laying down the Guidelines, you can contact the Legal and Compliance
highest standards of integrity. In order to meet these organization at any time. This also applies if you have
goals, we must abide by our internal rules and regulations, suspicions of a breach of the Business Conduct Guidelines.
and legal requirements. Equally important, we base all our You can of course also report references to potential
decisions on the values of our company – excellent, misconduct to our Tell Us Hotline or Ombudsperson.
innovative, responsible – and ethical principles. Messages are always checked fairly, promptly, and
professionally. Those reporting cases can remain
anonymous and enjoy special protection.
Act ethically and with integrity – we are counting on you!
Yours,
Dr. Andreas C. Hoffmann & Annette Kraus
General Counsel and Head of Legal and Compliance of
Siemens AG & Chief Compliance Officer of Siemens AG
7Business Conduct Guidelines – Our motivation and Ethical Principles
Transform the everyday
Our motivation and Ethical Principles
We combine
the real
and the
Our passion for technology drives us digital world Through our expertise in
to set standards and create added value electrification, automation,
in the long-term for our customers, and digitization, we improve
society, and every individual. people’s lives today and create
lasting value for future generations.
Siemens is committed to
responsible and ethical
business conduct – beyond
compliance with laws and
regulations – always and
everywhere.
Our Siemens’ Ethical Principles guide our daily
decision-making and provide a framework for
“doing the right thing”, and can help us when
there are conflicts between purely economic
decisions and what is right for our people, the
environment and/or society in general.
8Business Conduct Guidelines – Our motivation and Ethical Principles
Our Ethical Principles guide and help us to always act
responsibly – in the real and the digital world.
We are honest and We engage with reputable
truthful in our dealings and law-abiding partners
When we act with integrity, we set the tone for The people and organizations we do
how we deal with one another. This creates a business with reflect ourselves.
positive, trustful work environment.
We respect the dignity, We act in line with
privacy and inherent our responsibility for
rights of individuals the environment
Respect for human rights – such as individual Sustainable business requires
and collective rights at work – is essential for environmentally responsible decisions.
a healthy society and sustainable business.
We protect the health, We explore
occupational safety, and ethical concerns
personal security of our people
These Ethical Principles are not exhaustive.
If something does not feel right to you, do
Protecting the physical and mental safety and
not do it.
health and the personal security of our people
is critical. We all are responsible for this.
9Our behavioral principles
Our behavioral principles guide our decisions and
overall conduct as employees of Siemens
A We behave correctly
B We respect each other
C We create trust
D We protect our company
As managers, we have a
E
special responsibility
10Business Conduct Guidelines – Our behavioral principles
We behave correctly
A
We comply with the applicable laws of the countries in
which we operate and ensure the implementation of all
company guidelines, processes, and controls.
What laws must we obey?
We must be aware of and comply with the laws and
regulations that apply to our daily work. These laws and
regulations may vary from country to country. If we are
uncertain or have questions, we contact Legal and
Compliance.
What are the consequences of violations for our
company and for us as employees?
Violations of the law or failure to comply with the Business
Conduct Guidelines can have serious consequences for our
company and us.
These consequences can be,
for each of us:
• disciplinary action
• fines and damages
• imprisonment
We ask ourselves the following questions when making
for our company: decisions for Siemens:
• damage to Siemens’ reputation, brand, and market value • Is it right for Siemens? Is it in line with Siemens’
values and our values?
• significant fines and damages
• Is it legal?
• disgorgement of profit
• Could it affect our brand if our decision becomes
• exclusion from public and private contracts
the subject of media coverage?
• What would the people we care about think of
our decision?
• Are we prepared to take responsibility for our decision?
11Business Conduct Guidelines – Our behavioral principles
We respect each other We create trust
B C
We respect the personal dignity, privacy, and rights of each We are open and honest. We take our responsibility
individual. We believe diversity enriches our workplace. We seriously, we are reliable, and we only make promises we
work together without regard to ethnic origin, culture, can keep.
religion, age, disability, skin color, gender, sexual identity
and orientation, or worldview. We are sincere. We help clarify and eliminate potential
deficiencies, problems, and misunderstandings. We do
We do not tolerate discrimination, sexual or any other form everything to fulfill the trust placed in us by our customers
of harassment, or inappropriate behavior toward and the users of our products, services, and industry
individuals or groups. solutions.
We apply these principles of respect to each other and
third-parties with whom we interact, including our What do we do when we make a mistake?
suppliers, customers, and business partners.
We all make mistakes at work. We foster a culture where
we learn from our mistakes. We deal openly with them to
What does this mean in practice? What behavior prevent them from recurring. This is the only way to learn
is unacceptable? Here are a few examples: from mistakes and help prevent them from recurring.
While most mistakes are minor, others could have serious
• Racially offensive or xenophobic material is placed consequences and should be reported.
on a colleague’s desk;
• Innuendo or comments hostile to the disabled;
• Gender-specific harassment or violence, including
assaults, unwanted advances, or improper remarks
or jokes; or
• Displaying improper images or objects, including those
with sexual content.
12Business Conduct Guidelines – Our behavioral principles
We interact with each other
in a respectful and reliable
manner.
What do we do if we observe a violation of the
Business Conduct Guidelines?
We do not look away when we recognize possible
violations of the Business Conduct Guidelines, even if they
do not involve us personally. The company has numerous
outlets to report possible violations of the Business
Conduct Guidelines (see chapter “Our reporting procedures”).
In many cases, timely reporting is important to avoid or
minimize negative consequences to the company.
D We protect our company
We protect and promote Siemens’ reputation and values.
They are essential for our business success and ensure the
sustainable future of our company. If we act illegally or
inappropriately, we can cause considerable damage to the
company.
13Business Conduct Guidelines – Our behavioral principles
Our managers lead by example
and set the appropriate tone
from the top.
As managers, we have a
E
special responsibility
As managers, we bear a special responsibility and we take
seriously our duty of care for the employees entrusted to us.
We create a trusting working environment and are always
available to discuss with our employees uncertainties,
compliance with legal requirements, questions, or
professional and personal concerns with our employees.
We set a good example and ensure our teams understand
the importance of acting in accordance with the Business
Conduct Guidelines. What are our organizational and
supervisory duties?
We take every indication of possible misconduct seriously
and report it to Legal and Compliance. We protect the • We carefully select employees based on their personal
identity of employees who report potential misconduct and and professional qualifications and suitability. The duty
protect them from retaliation or other negative impact. of care increases with the importance of the task the
employee has to perform (Duty of Selection).
We fulfill our organizational and supervisory duties.
• We define binding tasks precisely and completely,
especially with regard to compliance with legal
requirements (Duty to Issue Instructions).
• We ensure that compliance with legal requirements is
constantly monitored (Duty to Monitor).
• In our day-to-day business, we clearly communicate the
importance of responsible business conduct, compliance
with legal requirements, and the consequences of our
misconduct (Duty to Communicate).
Our managers‘ special responsibilities and duties do
not release us from our own responsibilities as
employees. We must work together to comply with the law
and Siemens’ guidelines.
14Business Conduct Guidelines – Our behavioral principles
N
S
15Our responsibility
Transform the everyday
F We look after each other and ourselves
G Our markets: we act fairly and reliably
Our company: we create trust and protect
H
what makes Siemens valuable
Our portfolio: world-class products, services,
I
and industry solutions
J Our partners: we work with responsible partners
K Our responsibility to society and the environment
16Business Conduct Guidelines – Our responsibility
F We look after each other and ourselves
Siemens protects our fundamental rights as employees,
our health, our personal security, and occupational safety
at all locations throughout the world and when we are on
business travel.
F1 Basic working conditions
Siemens fosters fair cooperation among management,
employees, and employee representatives,
and protects the fundamental rights of its employees.
No discrimination or intimidation
Working hours
The principles of equal opportunity and equal treatment
are guaranteed without regard to skin color, ethnic or
Siemens adheres to all applicable working-hours
social origin, religion, age, disability, sexual identity,
regulations globally.
worldview, or gender. In accordance with the labor laws of
the countries in which Siemens operates, discrimination
based on these characteristics, sexual harassment, or other
Freedom of association and collective bargaining
inappropriate behavior toward individuals or groups will
not be tolerated.
Siemens recognizes the legal rights of workers to form or
join existing trade unions and to engage in collective
bargaining. Members of employee organizations or trade
Free choice of employment
unions are neither disadvantaged nor preferred. Siemens
constructively cooperates with employees, employee
No one should be employed or forced to work against their
representatives, and trade unions.
will. All forms of forced labor are prohibited.
Even in the event of disputes, Siemens strives to ensure
sustainable and constructive cooperation in the long term
Prohibition of child labor
and for solutions that reflect the interests of the company
and the interests of its employees.
Child labor is strictly prohibited.
Adequate compensation
Siemens pays fair wages for labor and adheres to all
applicable wage and compensation laws globally. Siemens
observes “equal pay” principles and does not discriminate
on the basis of gender.
17Business Conduct Guidelines – Our responsibility
Health, occupational safety,
F2
and personal security
Siemens cares about us as part of its corporate
responsibility.
Our health Our personal security
Siemens protects and promotes our health and well-being, Siemens is active worldwide, including in areas and
guards against the risk of work-related accidents, and situations where the security situation is critical. To protect
offers a wide-range of support to maintain and promote our employees, the company, and our business in the best
our physical and mental health. possible way, Siemens identifies and analyzes global
security risks and assesses their potential impact.
Our occupational safety
Siemens provides a safe work environment to ensure This is what we do:
employees return home healthy and unharmed at the end
of the working day. We ourselves contribute to this: • We educate ourselves in advance about the
security risks in the countries to which we will be
traveling and comply with prescribed security
procedures and requirements.
This is what we do:
• We do not expose ourselves or our colleagues to
• We observe the safety regulations at our unnecessary hazards through reckless behavior or
workplace. by ignoring security regulations.
• We avoid risky behavior. • We react quickly in a critical situation, contact the
emergency hotline at +49 (89) 7805 – 12345
• When we recognize dangerous situations, we take (staffed 24 hours a day), and follow the relevant
appropriate action. security instructions.
• We report security incidents promptly to our
security officer and/or use the security incident
reporting tool “IncidentReporting@Siemens”(IR@S).
S e c
Our employees are our most
valuable asset. Your health and
We set a good example. safety are our top priority.
18Business Conduct Guidelines – Our responsibility
Fair competition is in line with our values: excellent,
innovative, and responsible. Siemens stands for fair
competition in which only market economy criteria
(quality, price, innovation, service, etc.) are the decisive
factors for business decisions. Competition should not
be distorted by unfair methods or means.
Our markets: we act fairly and reliably
G
Fair competition: we place integrity at the The most common form of corruption is bribery. Siemens
G1
heart of everything we do does not tolerate any form of bribery.
Bribery is the act of offering, promising, or giving
We reject all forms of corruption and bribery. money, gifts, or other benefit to a public official or
public or private employee with the aim of receiving
We do not tolerate any form of corruption in our business improper advantages. Bribery is a criminal offense
dealings anywhere in the world. This includes our business worldwide.
dealings through our external partners.
The term “public official” or “member of the public
Corruption sector” covers any person employed by or
commissioned by a public authority. This includes all
Corruption is dishonest or illegal behavior, especially by government officials and employees of non-governmental
people in power, typically involving bribery. It can also institutions who are regarded as public officials in
include other acts, such as fraud, embezzlement, accordance with applicable law.
favoritism, and nepotism.
This is what we do:
• We do not actively or passively engage in any
form of corrupt conduct.
• We report all suspected corrupt activity to our
Legal and Compliance organization.
19Business Conduct Guidelines – Our responsibility
We do not tolerate any
form of bribery.
Gifts and hospitality – yes, but only
This is what we do: to a reasonable extent
We do not: In many cultures, gifts and invitations to entertainment
events are important for developing and deepening
• give or accept excessive gifts or entertainment; business relationships. However, some gifts and invitations
may unreasonably influence the recipient’s decision-making
• give or accept excessive travel expenses; or create the appearance of improper influence.
• give or accept inappropriate,
sponsorship, or memberships;
This is what we do:
• give or accept inappropriate monetary payments;
• We do not provide overly generous gifts or
• use third-parties to bribe on Siemens’ behalf; or hospitality.
• give or accept improper facilitation payments. • We do not provide gifts or hospitality in exchange
for business or other benefits.
What are facilitation payments? Gifts and hospitality must:
A facilitation payment is the payment of a relatively small • be in accordance with applicable laws and regulations;
amount of money, or the granting of any other benefit,
usually to low-ranking public officials, for their personal
Regulations
benefit or to expedite the performance of a routine
governmental action.
Our business counterparts, especially government officials,
often have their own internal rules that restrict their ability
Facilitation payments are prohibited and can be prosecuted.
to accept gifts and hospitality. These rules can be very
strict and we must be aware of and adhere to them:
• be transparent and correctly recorded in the company’s
books and records;
• be appropriate in terms of type, value, and frequency to
the occasion and the position of the recipient;
• not be offered, provided, demanded, or accepted with
the expectation of any type of advantage; and
• never give the appearance of dishonesty or
inappropriateness.
20Business Conduct Guidelines – Our responsibility
Political engagement
Continuous dialog with political decision-makers is highly
relevant for the success of a global company. We are
committed to political neutrality. Siemens activities with
Sponsorships, donations, charitable contributions, and respect to politicians, parties, and positions will be non-
memberships – yes, but only to promote corporate goals partisan; and solely in support of Siemens business goals.
We comply with the law and Siemens guidelines.
Sponsorships, donations, charitable contributions, and
memberships are important to our social commitment and Payment of travel expenses –
the pursuit of our corporate goals. yes, but only when reasonable and allowable
Siemens may be required to pay third-party travel expenses
in certain business transactions. However, excessive
reimbursement can inappropriately influence the recipient
This is what we do: or at least create the appearance of influence.
Sponsorships, donations, charitable contributions,
and memberships:
• must be carefully examined to determine whether This is what we do:
they promote the company’s legitimate objectives;
• We only pay justified and appropriate
• may not be promised, offered, or made to obtain travel expenses.
improper business advantages or for other
unethical purposes; • We adhere to the aforementioned regulations
for gifts and hospitality.
• must be religiously and politically neutral; and
• must strengthen our brand and our social
commitments. It is not enough to consider legal
requirements alone.
21Business Conduct Guidelines – Our responsibility
Outgoing payments – yes, but only if used lawfully
Payments to third-parties are made every day in the course
of business at Siemens. Processes and tools help us ensure
these payments are properly documented and provided for
proper purposes.
This is what we do:
• We only maintain accounts or funds for
legitimate purposes.
• We only make payments to third-parties that
are legal and have legitimate purposes.
• We only make payments when there is proper
documentation.
Involvement of third-parties – yes, but without bribery Here are some red flags we must critically
question and clarify:
There are many legitimate reasons for involving third-
parties in business relationships. However, using third- • Inconsistencies in records and payments;
parties to unlawfully or improperly influence public
• High prices with deep discounts or unduly high
officials or private individuals is prohibited. We therefore
profit margins;
scrutinize business partners at the beginning of our
business relationships and monitor the relationships as • Contractual partners with unclear responsibilities
they develop. or questionable qualifications;
• Suspicious personal relationships or business
arrangements;
This is what we do: • Unusually high fees, commissions, gifts, entertainment,
or hospitality;
• We scrutinize and monitor business partners and
• The rejection of anti-corruption contract clauses;
take into account their respective risks.
• The demand for prepayment without plausible
• We are committed to ensuring that our partners business reasons; and
in our value chain know and adhere to our values
• Demands for cash payments or transfers to offshore
and compliance standards.
bank accounts or third-parties.
• We insist on contract provisions that require our
business partners to act in compliance with all
applicable rules and regulations.
22Business Conduct Guidelines – Our responsibility
“I will not sell the future
for instant profit.”
– Werner von Siemens
G2 We are successful in fair competition: antitrust We never talk to competitors about:
law and fair competition
• Prices, price components, or other conditions;
• Market, customer, or territory allocation;
Antitrust law protects free, undistorted, and effective
competition for the benefit of customers, companies, and • Business opportunities or incoming orders;
society as a whole.
• Capacities, production volumes, or quotas;
Antitrust violations can have serious consequences for our • Corporate strategies or future market behavior; for
company and the employees involved, such as high fines, example, sales strategies, current and future product
exclusion from public tenders, claims for damages, developments, investments, and boycotts;
damage to reputation, and imprisonment.
• Offers and tenders; and
• Conduct during tenders or the submission of
bogus offers.
This is what we do:
• We never enter into anticompetitive agreements
with competitors. This is what we do:
• We also support open competition in our
relationships with customers, sales partners,
and suppliers.
What are anticompetitive agreements?
• We never talk to customers, sales partners,
Anticompetitive agreements include price agreements, or suppliers about:
market, customer, or territory allocations, and project
agreements with competitors. Abusing a dominant – Adherence to resale prices. In many cases,
position (indicator: more than 30 to 50 percent market however, non-binding recommendations,
share) is also prohibited. without pressure or incentives, regarding resale
prices and the establishment of maximum sale
prices are permissible; or
This is what we do: – Obstruction of exports or re-imports.
• We only talk to competitors if we have a • We handle confidential information from Siemens
compelling business reason and there are no and third-parties, such as competitors, customers,
antitrust concerns. sales partners, and suppliers, with care.
23Business Conduct Guidelines – Our responsibility
What is confidential information that
deserves special protection? This is what we do:
Confidential information is information that is not • For products where Siemens may have a dominant
intended to be made public. This may include non-public position (indicator: greater than 30 to 50 percent
information from or about Siemens, suppliers, customers, market share), we contact Legal and Compliance
employees, agents, consultants, or other third-parties that when confronted with the following types of
is protected under legal and contractual requirements. conduct:
This can include, for example: – exclusivity agreements or loyalty discounts;
• details of a company’s organization and facilities, – excessively high or low “competitive prices”;
prices, sales, profits, markets, customers, and other
business matters; – coupled sale of a “strong market” product
with other products;
• offer documents;
• information on manufacturing, research, and – unequal treatment of business partners (except
development processes; where there is an objective justification, such as,
for example, different sales prices due to a
• technical information; and
volume discount); or
• internal reporting figures.
– refusal of delivery or license (without an
objective justification).
A few examples of what we do not do:
• We have potentially anticompetitive business
• We never obtain confidential information from third- partnerships examined in advance by Legal and
parties without justification and use it in an unlawful Compliance, such as:
manner, such as, for example, in the bidding process.
– working/bidding partnerships, consortia;
• We do not use confidential documents from previous
employers or store them on Siemens networks.
– joint research and development;
– specialization/joint production;
24Business Conduct Guidelines – Our responsibility
– standardization and harmonization;
– joint purchasing;
– exclusive distribution/exclusive procurement;
– market information systems/benchmarking; and
– exclusivity agreements and exclusive territory
allocation in distribution and licensing
agreements.
• We only participate in association meetings if
there is a written invitation with an agenda,
representatives of the association are present,
and minutes are kept. Further information can
be found in the “Recommendations for action in
working with associations.”
We comply with trade and export control
G3
regulations
As a company with international operations, it is essential
for Siemens to comply with the export control and customs
regulations applicable to national and international trade.
This is what we do:
• We carefully ensure that the applicable customs Collective Action: our commitment to clean
G4
and foreign trade regulations, including markets pays off
regulations on security in the supply chain, are
checked, implemented, and complied with when Siemens faces significant compliance risks in numerous
goods are traded or transported, services are markets. Collective Action is our strategic response to this
provided, or other technical know-how or software challenge. Together with other companies, the public
is transferred. sector, and civil society, we enter into integrity and
compliance pacts with our partners for business
• We thoroughly audit business in sanctioned cooperation and support binding agreements for individual
countries. sectors and markets.
• We ensure that all applicable export control Through these joint efforts, we aim to create fair, level, and
regulations (such as those of the European Union clean market conditions for all participants.
and the United States) are checked and complied
with in Siemens’ business activities, even outside
the respective territories.
• We distance ourselves from a transaction and alert
Export Control when there are indications of
possible infringements or unauthorized use of our
products, services, or industry solutions.
25Business Conduct Guidelines – Our responsibility
The Siemens brand is a promise of innovation and quality. It
must be relevant, tangible, and capable of being experi-
enced. And it has to open doors all over the world. That is the
case today. And it should remain that way in the future.
Our company: we create trust and protect
H
what makes Siemens valuable
The Siemens brand: a promise of innovation In addition to the Siemens brand, intellectual property
H1
and quality rights, patents, copyrights, and confidential know-how,
and their protection, are essential for our business success.
The Siemens brand is an integral part of our business and,
therefore, has significant strategic importance. It is one of
our major corporate assets and competencies, generates This is what we do:
trust, and has a positive effect on all our business activities.
With the Siemens brand, we distinguish ourselves from • We, as inventors, support Siemens by filing for
the competition. intellectual property rights in a timely manner.
• We report suspected violations of our intellectual
property rights.
This is what we do:
• We use computer software only in accordance with
• We are innovative and constantly working on new applicable license terms and ensure compliance
business ideas. However, we always make with all license requirements of integrated third-
decisions to protect or strengthen the Siemens party software, commercial, and open source
brand, not in favor of a particular business alone. software, in our products and solutions.
• When in doubt and before making a decision • We respect the intellectual property rights of third-
regarding the Siemens brand, we contact the parties.
Brand Design Hotline
(design-support.communications@siemens.com).
26Business Conduct Guidelines – Our responsibility
Handling of the Siemens brand and other
intellectual property rights This is what we do:
• We make business decisions in the best interest of
What makes the Siemens brand so valuable? our company and not on the basis of personal
interests.
The brand...
• provides focus to our stakeholders, such as • We anticipate and avoid situations in which the
customers, employees, etc.; appearance of a conflict of interest may arise.
• distinguishes us from the competition; and • We do not, as part of our work for Siemens, engage
companies with which we have a personal interest
• ultimately generates trust. if it could personally benefit us, whether or not we
have or can exert direct or indirect influence on
Why are intellectual property rights so Siemens’ business decision.
important to Siemens?
• We inform our managers of any personal interest
If our innovations are not protected, third-parties can copy that might exist in connection with the
our products, which leads to a loss of competitive performance of our official duties.
advantage. When our innovations are infringed, we lose
the value of our investments in research and development.
Conflicts of interest – we only make business To protect ourselves and our company, we pay
H2
decisions in the interest of Siemens close attention to possible conflicts of interest.
The following questions help us assess whether there is
a conflict or an appearance of a conflict:
We are not influenced by personal interests when making
business decisions. Such conflicts of interest can hinder • Is the decision we make for Siemens influenced by
Siemens’ success in that decisions are made contrary to personal interests?
Siemens’ interest, customers are driven away, or important
• What impression would the situation leave on third-
information is disclosed.
parties, such as customers, business partners, and
investors?
Conflicts of interest may, for example: • How would the public react to my business decision?
• harm Siemens if contracts are awarded on the basis of
personal relationships that contain inferior terms from Here is a classic example of an internal conflict of
those of competitors; and interest:
• lead to reputational damage if they are made public; There is an intimate relationship between an employee and
dissatisfied employees or former customers could a manager. The manager is obliged to disclose the conflict
communicate conflicts to the outside world. of interest at an early stage and change the reporting
relationship.
There is a conflict of interest in day-to-day business if
our personal interests differ from those of Siemens.
27Business Conduct Guidelines – Our responsibility
Competition with Siemens Secondary employment can only be prohibited, and
previously granted permission can be revoked, if it
A conflict of interest may also arise in business relationships leads to an impairment of the employee’s work
with or through investments in a competitor or customer of performance, interferes with his or her duties within the
Siemens. company, or if there is a risk of a conflict of interest.
Occasional writing, lecturing, and similar activities, and
temporary seasonal or clerical work are not regarded as
secondary employment.
This is what we do:
• We do not operate or work for a company that Investment in third-party companies
competes with Siemens.
Conflicts of interest can also arise through investments
• We do not engage in any activity that competes in third-party companies.
with Siemens.
This is what we do:
Typical examples of a competitive situation: We inform the Human Resources department in
writing of any direct or indirect investment in
• The employee also works for or advises a companies:
competitor of Siemens.
• that are business partners of Siemens if we are
• The employee himself competes directly with engaged in business with the company or have a
Siemens. board or management role in the company. With
respect to publicly traded companies, this only
• There are personal or family ties to competitors. applies if the investment exceeds three percent of
the total capital; or
Secondary employment • that compete with our company if we can
influence the management of the competitor
A conflict may also arise in the performance of secondary through this investment. This is presumed if the
employments that prevent us from properly performing our interest exceeds three percent of the total capital
duties at Siemens. of the company.
This is what we do:
• Before we engage in paid secondary employment,
we consult with our managers. We inform the
Human Resources department in writing that we
would like to take up paid secondary employment
and will only do so after obtaining written consent.
28Business Conduct Guidelines – Our responsibility
Money laundering and the funding of terrorism –
H3
not with us! This is what we do:
Delivery and supply activities entail the risk of being • We use a risk-based approach to verify the identity
abused for money laundering or terrorist financing. and economic background of customers, business
partners, and other third-parties, and the origin of
Siemens strives to maintain business relationships only payments to ensure they come from legitimate
with reputable customers, partners, and companies whose sources.
business activities comply with legal requirements and
whose financial resources are of legitimate origin. • We immediately inform Legal and Compliance or
our manager in the event of suspicious activity.
When necessary, Siemens reports suspicious
Money laundering is the disguising of the origin of activity to law enforcement authorities.
money or other assets from criminal activities and
moving them into the legitimate economy. In addition to
monetary support, the funding of terrorism may include
other assets such as goods or merchandise.
29Business Conduct Guidelines – Our responsibility
Financial integrity – this is how we strengthen Am I responsible for tax matters even if I do not
H4
the trust placed in us work directly in the Finance or Tax Department?
As an international company, Siemens is committed to Yes. We are all responsible for tax matters in the context of
accurate and truthful reporting to investors, employees, our business activities. The correct fiscal representation of a
customers, business partners, the public, and all business activity is not only the responsibility of the Finance
government agencies. We follow all applicable laws, or Tax Department. All transactions must be reflected
regulations, standards, and practices. correctly for tax purposes. For example, a customer invoice
must contain, among other things, accurate information
about the content of the service provided and the correct VAT.
This is what we do: I am planning a business transaction with a
customer abroad. What do I have to do from a tax
• We ensure our books and records are kept perspective?
completely, accurately, and truthfully. They are
prepared on time and in accordance with the If you are unsure about the tax consequences of the
applicable rules and standards. transaction, contact the Tax Department for advice.
• We comply with the Financial Reporting Guidelines
and follow internal control processes.
• We provide correct and complete information for
financial reporting purposes.
Our accounts and records include all data, certificates,
and other written materials provided for financial
reporting and disclosure purposes, and materials collected
for other purposes.
This is what we do:
• When applying tax laws, or in the event of conflicts
between tax regulations, we ensure the tax result
is consistent with the relevant economic and legal
circumstances and our business models.
• We do not use artificial structures or letterbox
companies whose sole purpose is to obtain
unlawful tax advantages.
• We provide tax authorities with transparent
information on our tax strategy and business
activities in accordance with existing regulations.
30Business Conduct Guidelines – Our responsibility
Insider trading – neither for us,
H5
nor for others!
Insider information may not be used or disclosed without
authorization.
What is insider information? How do we know if we are an insider?
In our work, we often come into contact with confidential We must consider whether information we receive can
information. If it becomes known, some of this information have a significant impact on our share price such that, if
may even be important enough to have a material effect on disclosed, it represents insider information. Ultimately,
the share price of Siemens or another company, such as, for Siemens cannot make this decision for us. Furthermore, it
example, one of our publicly traded customers or suppliers, is not the formal inclusion in an insider list that is decisive,
one of our publicly traded subsidiaries, or a joint venture but whether we are actually aware of insider information.
partner. This is called “insider information” as long as it has Whether an insider list is opened and who is included in it
not yet been published. Insider information can also consist should be viewed as a separate decision to be made by the
of many individual pieces of information that we have company. This also applies to insider information that
gained, for example, from discussions and documents concerns another company.
inside and outside the company or received incidentally.
Our individual knowledge of the situation always matters.
Can we be sure we are not violating the ban on
insider trading when participating in employee
What is an insider and what are the consequences stock ownership programs?
of being an insider?
Siemens strives to enable us to participate in employee
An insider is someone who has inside information. This stock ownership programs with the lowest possible risk of
person is subject to strict legal requirements. In almost all violating the insider trading prohibition. However, this does
countries in which Siemens operates, there are severe not rule out the possibility that we may have knowledge of
sanctions for the prohibited use of insider information. insider information in individual cases. Therefore, when
Such misuse could have considerable consequences for the actively participating in employee stock programs, we
company concerned, and result in personal and criminal should always ask ourselves whether we can make the
liability. purchase or sale decisions without being influenced by
possible insider information.
This is what we do:
• We do not engage in transactions based on insider
information, such as the purchase or sale of a
share or option or the cancellation of a share
purchase order, for us or for others.
• We do not induce others, such as friends or bank
advisors, to engage in securities transactions on
the basis of insider information, and we do not
recommend such transactions to them.
• We treat insider and potential insider information
with strict confidentiality and ensure that
unauthorized persons cannot gain access to it.
31Business Conduct Guidelines – Our responsibility
Sec
How we responsibly protect our
H6
corporate assets
Our corporate assets are essential to our business success.
For this reason, we ensure that these assets are handled
responsibly and fully protected. As employees, we play a
decisive role in achieving this goal.
We identify our critical corporate assets and implement
protection measures to adequately protect them
In order to adequately protect our corporate assets,
we need to know and evaluate them.
This is what we do: We treat company information with due care
• We identify critical business assets in our respective Siemens attaches great importance to ensuring that
areas of responsibility and classify them according sensitive company information cannot fall into the hands
to their potential impact in the event of a security of unauthorized persons or third-parties. In this way, we
incident. create the trust required for worldwide cooperation with
customers and partners.
• We develop and implement holistic protection
measures based on the classification of corporate
assets.
• We ensure the sustainable protection of our
corporate assets by regularly reviewing the
classifications and protection measures.
32Business Conduct Guidelines – Our responsibility
This is what we do:
• We classify information according to company
specifications and treat it according to its
protection class. This means we do not use
information and documents marked “restricted”,
“confidential”, or “strictly confidential” externally.
This also applies to internal social media platforms,
unless the terms of use permit otherwise.
• We only send confidential or critical business
content in encrypted form and store it accordingly.
• We do not share personal passwords and access
codes with third-parties.
• We do not disclose confidential information.
• We always adhere to the Basic Principles of
Communication when dealing with company
information. This also applies to business and
personal use of social media.
We handle company equipment and facilities
with due care
Basic Principles of Communication
We treat with care the company equipment and facilities
• We take the confidentiality of internal company at our disposal for our daily work.
information into account in all communications.
• We check non-public information for its potential status
as insider information prior to publication. This is what we do:
• We adhere to the defined core messages to ensure the • We take responsibility that the facilities and
company-wide consistency and reliability of the materials provided to us, such as telephones,
messages. laptops, e-mail and intranet, internal social media
platforms, copiers, mailrooms, and tools, are only
• We are particularly cautious with forecasts and other used for business purposes consistent with local
forward-looking statements. company policy.
• We respond to rumors and speculation with • We are permitted to use corporate Internet access
“No comment”. for private purposes – including external social
media – consistent with local company policy.
• We are careful during our private conversations.
• When we privately publish content on social media
• We do not communicate within the “quiet period”. platforms and identify ourselves as Siemens
employees, we make it unmistakably clear, through
Examples of confidential information can be found in a disclaimer or otherwise, that we are expressing
the chapter on free competition (chapter G2). our personal opinion and that it does not
necessarily reflect the position of our company.
33Business Conduct Guidelines – Our responsibility
• We do not retrieve or share information that
supports or encourages racial hatred, glorification
of violence or other crimes, or content that is
sexually offensive to a particular culture.
• We ensure that no recordings, files, images, or
sound reproductions are made using our
company’s equipment, unless it directly relates to
our professional activity and our manager
approves.
Data protection and privacy –
H7
we are aware of our responsibilities
The protection of personal data plays an important role in
our digitized world. We handle it carefully and responsibly This is what we do:
and respect everyone’s privacy. The loss or improper use of
personal data can have serious consequences for the • We collect and process personal data confidentially,
individuals concerned. It is therefore very important for only for legitimate, predetermined purposes, and
Siemens to ensure that this data is effectively protected in a transparent manner.
and used only for legitimate purposes.
• We only process personal data if it is protected
All of us who handle the personal data of employees, against loss, modification, and unauthorized use or
customers, or third-parties bear a high level of disclosure by appropriate technical and
responsibility. organizational measures.
• We will immediately inform our company’s local
Personal data is information about specific or Data Protection Organization of possible data
identifiable natural persons, such as name and protection violations.
address, photos, personnel number, bank data, digital
identifiers, or health data.
34Business Conduct Guidelines – Our responsibility
Our portfolio: world-class products, services,
I
and industry solutions
Siemens stands for world-class quality and wants to inspire
its customers with excellent and innovative products,
services, and industry solutions.
Our top priority is the security of our portfolio for
customers and all those who come into contact with it,
and its legal conformity, quality, and environmental
compatibility. Products and services sold by Siemens do
not pose unacceptable risks to life, health, or property.
Compliance with applicable technical regulations for
approval and marketing in our market countries is a
fundamental requirement for the design and distribution
of our products and services. We keep our technical
promises (technical compliance).
In a world of “smart products” and ever-increasing Where can violations occur in the area of technical
digitalization, our aim is to fulfill the trust placed in compliance?
Siemens and in us.
• Active deception: Making declarations that contain
false product information.
This is what we do: • Deception by omission: Omitting information about
product defects at any point in their development,
• In our areas of responsibility, we ensure that our marketing, or use.
products, services, and industry solutions are safe
and comply with applicable legal requirements in
our market countries for their safety, approval, The ten principles for cyber security
marketing, and use. (Charter of Trust) are:
• We keep our technical promises. 01 Responsibility for cyber and IT security
• If we become aware of any quality, safety, or other 02 Responsibility for the digital supply chain
conformity defects in our area of responsibility, or
if there are any indications of such defects, we will 03 Cyber security as the plant standard
follow-up and report them.
04 Focusing on the needs of users
• We observe the ten principles of cybersecurity in
everything we do. 05 Innovation and co-creation
06 Making cyber security an integral part of training
07 Certification of critical infrastructures and IoT solutions
08 Increasing transparency and responsiveness
09 Regulatory framework
10 Promoting joint initiatives
More information about the Charter of Trust can
be found at: www.charter-of-trust.com
35Business Conduct Guidelines – Our responsibility
Our partners:
J
we work with responsible partners
Business relationships with our customers, suppliers, and The Code of Conduct is based, among other things,
other business partners are fundamental to Siemens. on the UN Global Compact and the principles of the
International Labor Organization, and it reflects the
We maintain business relationships only with reputable Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines, which apply to the
partners who comply with the law. entire company.
We protect the interests of our customers through the The following principles apply to cooperation
careful selection of suppliers and other business partners with our partners:
and through the standards we set for our own actions.
That is why we cooperate with excellent partners • We work closely with our suppliers and business partners.
worldwide.
• We partner with our suppliers and help them improve.
• We constantly analyze our current business relationships
and react immediately to emerging risks.
This is what we do:
• We only work with suppliers who are prepared to
• We carefully select our suppliers and other eliminate problems or implement risk reduction measures.
business partners.
• We conduct appropriate due diligence reviews, including
• We contractually oblige our suppliers and business compliance with export controls and anti-money
partners to adhere to a uniform Code of Conduct laundering laws.
for Siemens Supplier and Third-Party
Intermediaries. • We assess project risks when deciding whether to bid
on a project.
• Sustainability is a core element of our supplier
management.
36Business Conduct Guidelines – Our responsibility
K Our responsibility to society and the environment
Siemens serves society wherever we operate. As a globally In line with its commitment under the Global
active company with innovative and investment capabilities, Compact, Siemens expects us and our suppliers
Siemens shares responsibility for sustainable development and business partners worldwide to comply with the
worldwide and makes a variety of contributions to it. In following guidelines:
addition, Siemens is voluntarily and purposefully committed
to promoting social concerns and needs. • International Bill of Human Rights, consisting of:
– Universal Declaration of Human Rights;
Our commitment to international agreements – International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; and
K1
and recommendations
– International Covenant on Economic, Social and
Siemens is participant of the United Nations Global Cultural Rights;
Compact. Its ten principles and the Global Industrial Union
framework agreement are binding on the entire company. • European Convention on Human Rights;
We are committed to promoting these principles within our • ILO (International Labour Organization) Tripartite
sphere of influence. Respect for human rights, Declaration of Principles on Multinational Enterprises
fundamental employee rights, environmental protection, and Social Policy and ILO Declaration on Fundamental
and the ban on corruption are an integral part of our Principles and Rights at Work, (in particular, on the
business. following topics: elimination of child labor, abolition of
forced labor, prohibition of discrimination, freedom of
association, and the right to collective bargaining), and
fundamental freedoms;
• OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises;
• Agenda 21 on sustainable development (final document
of the fundamental UN Conference on Environment and
Development, Rio de Janeiro);
• UN Convention against Corruption; and
• OECD Convention against Bribery of Foreign
Public Officials.
37Business Conduct Guidelines – Our responsibility
K2 Human rights
Siemens proclaims human rights are a core element of
responsible business conduct and advocate for human
rights in its value chain. Siemens operates in close
alignment with the United Nations’ guiding principles for
business and human rights.
Compliance with the human rights laws and regulations is
essential. Siemens expects us to act in accordance with the
principles of the Global Compact.
Key principles of the Global Compact
• Principle 1:
Businesses support and respect the protection of
internationally recognized human rights.
• Principle 2:
Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit
in human rights abuses. Which groups are particularly in need of
protection?
• Principles 3 to 6:
Businesses recognize the essential requirements These include – depending on the specific facts and legal
regarding workers’ rights. circumstances – members of indigenous peoples, children,
people with disabilities, and people who are disadvantaged
or exposed to special risks because of their skin color,
ethnic or social origin, religion, age, disability, sexual
This is what we do: identity, worldview, or gender.
• We examine the decisions that we make on behalf
of our company at an early stage for possible
adverse effects on the human rights of others
inside and outside Siemens.
• We strive to avoid or mitigate negative effects on
human rights that occur in connection with our
business activities, regardless of whether Siemens
has caused or contributed to these effects.
• We respect the human rights of local communities
and of people who are particularly vulnerable.
38Business Conduct Guidelines – Our responsibility
K3 Environment
Environmental protection is a corporate responsibility,
social responsibility, and an important success factor for
Siemens. In all units of the company and in all countries in
which we operate, it is our goal to protect the environment
and conserve resources.
We work on environmental protection within the company This is what we do:
and together with our customers, for example, by
continuously improving energy and resource efficiency. • Climate protection is closely linked to energy
consumption. We use energy rationally and
Siemens expects us to engage in environmentally efficiently.
conscious behavior every day. We should be aware of our
exemplary roles when it comes to the environment. • We try to avoid or recycle waste.
• We design our processes to achieve the best
What environmental programs does Siemens possible environmental compatibility of products
have? and plants and avoid unnecessary emissions and
noise pollution.
The Siemens environmental programs are designed to
conserve resources throughout the entire product life
cycle, reduce waste for disposal, and make our own
business activities CO2-neutral. The Siemens Environmental
Portfolio is our and our company’s response to climate
change, resource scarcity, and threats to the environment.
Our company meets the ecological demands of its partners
by developing future-oriented and resource-efficient
solutions, products, and business models. Consistent and
innovative environmental protection management is an
integral part of our business processes and goes beyond
legal requirements. We exert an influence on
environmental impacts at an early stage in product and
production planning, not only in the manufacturing phase,
but also in the design, sales, utilization, service, and
disposal phases. Climate protection plays a particularly
important role for our company.
39Our reporting procedures
What to do if there are signs of possible misconduct?
40Business Conduct Guidelines – Our reporting procedures
Siemens expects us to report possible violations of the
Business Conduct Guidelines. In so doing, we help to
identify and eliminate misconduct and grievances and
protect ourselves and the company against risks or
damages that may result. All allegations of possible violations of the Business
Conduct Guidelines are responded to in accordance with
formal company-wide processes. These processes take into
We may report circumstances that indicate a violation
account the presumption of innocence and the
of the Business Conduct Guidelines to the following
participation rights of employee representatives where
persons or entities:
required by local policy. Siemens will take appropriate
disciplinary action in the event of demonstrable violations.
• Managers;
• Chief Compliance Officer; Siemens will apply the same principles to allegations of
wrongdoing brought by third-parties.
• Compliance department and Legal department;
• Human Resources personnel;
• “Tell Us” Hotline;
Siemens protects us against retaliation, no matter
• Siemens ombudsperson; or which reporting channel we use. Our preferred
reporting channel is Tell Us. It is secure and available 24/7.
• Employee representatives.
Information on possible violations of the Business Conduct
Guidelines can be provided confidentially and
anonymously as needed. Siemens will examine all reports
and take appropriate measures. Siemens does not tolerate
any retaliation against complainants or whistleblowers.
Violations of this prohibition will be punished as
compliance violations.
41Business Conduct Guidelines – Index
Corruption 19, 22, 37
Customs 25
Index
Cyber security 35
D
Damages 11, 23, 41
Data protection 34
Data Protection Organization 34
Dominant position 23, 24
Donations 20, 21
A E
Agenda 21 37 Employee representatives 17, 41
Anticompetitive agreements 23 Employee stock ownership programs 31
Antitrust law 23 Environmental compatibility 35, 39
Association meetings 25 Environmental programs 39
B Environmental protection 37, 39
Basic Principles of Communication 33 Equal treatment 17
Basic working conditions 17 Ethical Principles 8, 9
Behavioral principles 10 European Convention on Human Rights 37
Books and records 30 Export Control 25, 36
Brand Design Hotline 26 F
Brand Siemens 11, 21, 26, 27 Facilitation payments 20
Bribery 19, 20, 22, 37 Fair competition 19, 23
Business decisions 19, 27 Financial integrity 30
Business partners 12, 22, 24, 27, 28, 29, 30, 36, 37 Financial Reporting Guidelines 30
C Financial reporting purposes 30
Charitable contributions 21 Fines 11, 23
Charter of Trust 35 Freedom of tariffs and freedom of association 17
Chief Compliance Officer 6, 7, 41, 44 G
Child labor 17, 37 Gifts and hospitality 20, 21
Collective Action 25 H
Company equipment and facilities 33 Health 9, 17, 18, 34, 35
Company information 32, 33 Hotline “Tell Us” 41
Compliance violations 41 Human rights 9, 37, 38
Computer software 26 I
Confidential information 23, 24, 31, 33 Insider 31, 33
Confidential know-how 26 Insider information 31, 33
Conflicts of interest 27, 28 Insider list 31
Copyrights 26, 44 Insider trading 31
Corporate assets 26, 32 Integrity 9, 19, 25, 30
42Business Conduct Guidelines – Index
Integrity and compliance pacts 25 S
Intellectual property rights 26, 27 Secondary employment 28
International agreements and recommendations 37 Security officer 18
International Labour Organization (ILO) 36, 37 Social media 33
Investment in third-party companies 28 Sponsorships 20, 21
Involvement of third-parties 22 Suppliers 12, 23, 24, 31, 36, 37
IoT – Internet of Things 35 T
IT security 35 Tax regulations 30
L Technical compliance 35
Legal and Compliance 11, 14, 19, 24, 29, 41, 44 “Tell Us” 41
M Terrorism funding 29
Managers 10, 14, 27, 28, 41 Trade and export control regulations 25
Memberships 20, 21 Travel expenses 20, 21
Money laundering 29, 36 Trust 10, 12, 16, 26, 27, 30, 32, 35
O U
Occupational safety 9, 17, 18 UN Convention against Corruption 37
OECD Convention against Bribery of Foreign Public Officials37 UN Global Compact 36, 37
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises 37 Universal Declaration of Human Rights 37
Ombudsperson 41 V
Open competition 23 Value chain 22, 38
Organizational and supervisory duties 14 Violations of the law 11
Outgoing payments 22 W
P Whistleblowers 41
Patents 26 Working hours 17
Personal data 34
Personal rights 12
Personal security 9, 17, 18
Portfolio 16, 35, 39
Privacy 9, 12, 34
Proper documentation 22
Public contracts 11
Public official 19, 20, 22, 37
Q
Quality 19, 26, 35
Quiet period 33
R
Red flags 22
Reporting procedures 40, 41
Reputational damage 11, 27
Responsibility 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 16, 18, 30, 32, 33, 34, 35, 37, 39
43Siemens AG
Legal and Compliance
Werner-von-Siemens-Straße 1
80333 München
For the publisher:
Annette Kraus, Chief Compliance Officer
Edition: 2023
Copyrights:
All rights, also that of translation, reprint and copy,
or parts thereof, are reserved.
This document will not be recalled in the event of any
alterations.
© 2023 Siemens AG, Berlin and Munich