Siemens Business
Conduct Guidelines
September 2017
siemens.com2
Content
Foreword 3 D. Handling of company property 24
A. Basic behavioral requirements 5 E. Handling of Information 26
A.1. Behavior which complies with law 6 E.1. Records and financial integrity 27
A.2. Mutual respect, honesty and integrity 7 E.2. Confidentiality 28
A.3. Responsibility for the reputation of Siemens 8 E.3. Data protection and data security 29
A.4. Management, responsibility and supervision 9 E.4. Insider trading rules 30
B. Treatment of business partners and third parties 11
F. Environment, safety and health 32
B.1. Fair competition and anti-trust laws 12
F.1. Environment and technical safety 33
B.2. Anti-corruption: offering and granting advantages 13
F.2. Work safety 34
B.3. Anti-corruption: demanding and accepting advantages 15
B.4. Political contributions, charitable donations and sponsoring 16 G. Complaints and comments 35
B.5. Government procurement 17
H. Compliance implemen tation and monitoring 37
B.6. Anti-money laundering 18
Further information and contacts 39
B.7. Trade controls 19
B.8. Working with suppliers 20 Conventions and recommendations 40
of international organizations
C. Avoiding conflicts of interest 21
C.1. Competing with Siemens 22
C.2. Sideline work 22
C.3. Interests in third companies 233
Foreword
I’m sure you’re aware of the fact that some- pany.” If we take that to heart, if we truly act in the interest of the com-
times a small stone can trigger a major land- pany, we will follow the rules, the law, and generally applicable, socially
slide. The same goes for unclean business prac- accepted values.
tices. The misconduct of one individual can
jeopardize the reputation and existence of an I urge you to read our Business Conduct Guidelines. They offer guidance
entire company, putting hundreds of thou- for our daily business. They make it easier for us to decide how to behave
sands of jobs on the line. in tricky situations. They tell us who we can turn to for advice. And they
are based on statutory provisions as well as international and generally
Siemens learned this the hard way. In 2006, accepted conventions on upholding human rights and fair competition.
the corruption scandal had pushed the com-
pany to the brink of the abyss. The financial damage was enormous, but All of us have the responsibility to be familiar with the rules and standards
the loss of our good name was a far heavier burden. A global corporation, of the Business Conduct Guidelines, to adhere to them at all times, to
synonymous with innovation, quality, reliability, and integrity since its make them an integral part of our lives, and to convey them to others. We
founding in 1847, saw its reputation dragged through the dirt. With dili- at Siemens want to be a good example. And that involves taking responsi-
gence and persistence, we succeeded in drawing the right conclusions bility for ourselves and others, upholding highest standards of integrity,
and coming to terms with the scandal in an exemplary manner. It was a and doing what is right – not only because we want to follow the rules
long and rocky road. Since then, we’ve gotten most things right: Today, but also because we believe they are valid. Ultimately, it’s about playing
our compliance culture and our commitment to integrity in business are fair. Fairness is good for society. And fairness is what Siemens should
recognized around the world. Today, we once again stand for what sets stand for – everywhere and at all times.
Siemens apart.
Today and in the future, only clean business is Siemens business – with-
out any ifs or buts, without any compromises. That applies to me person-
ally, to each member of the Managing Board, to each manager, and to
Joe Kaeser
each employee – to all of us, wherever in the world we represent Sie-
President and Chief Executive Officer of Siemens AG
mens. And it also applies to all of our business partners. So how should
we conduct ourselves? The guiding principle of our ownership culture can
be summarized in just nine words: “Always act as if it were your own com-4
Foreword
Dear Colleagues,
"Only clean business is Siemens business." This is our premise and the standard
that we set ourselves every day. The Business Conduct Guidelines are not a set of
"compliance rules" intended just for experts; they provide us all with a common
frame of reference in our daily work. The Legal and Compliance function is on
hand to give you advice and practical support in all questions relating to the inter-
pretation and application of the Business Conduct Guidelines, and to ensure that
suspected violations are dealt with quickly, fairly and professionally. As you are
already aware, our colleagues work with you in the Regions, Divisions, and other
units and departments. We have put together a full list of your contacts here.
Of course, you can also turn in confidence to our Tell Us Hotline or our
Ombudsman if you have any information regarding potential misconduct.
Please read through the Business Conduct Guidelines carefully and take advantage of the training courses
on offer, which are always being updated. These in particular are intended to help you apply the Business
Conduct Guidelines in your daily work.
We have achieved a great deal since the corruption scandal of 2006 and the ensuing crisis which threatened
our company's very existence. Once again, Siemens stands for integrity and reliability. Let us work together
on a basis of mutual trust to ensure that it stays that way in the future, too.
Andreas Hoffmann Klaus Moosmayer
General Counsel of Siemens AG Chief Compliance Officer of Siemens AG5
A. Basic behavioral requirements
Basic behavioral
requirements6
A .1. Behavior which complies with law
Observing the law and the legal system in every country where we do
business is a fundamental principle for Siemens¹. All employees must
obey the laws and regulations of the legal systems within which they are
operating in addition to applicable Siemens policies. Violations of the law
must be avoided under all circumstances.
Regardless of the sanctions that could be imposed by law, all employees
guilty of a violation will be subject to disciplinary consequences because
of the violation of their employment duties.
1 "Company” or “Siemens” denotes Siemens AG or its subsidiaries.
Basic behavioral
Baresqicu bireehmaevinotrsal
requirements7
A .2. Mutual respect, honesty and integrity
We respect the personal dignity, privacy, and personal rights of every
individual. We work together with individuals of various ethnic back-
grounds, cultures, religions, ages, disabilities, races, sexual identity, world
view and gender. Consistent with our corporate principles and with the
employment laws of numerous countries in which we work, we do not
tolerate discrimination against anyone on the basis of any of these
characteristics or harassment or offensive behavior, whether sexual or
otherwise personal.
These principles apply to both internal cooperation and conduct towards
external partners. We make decisions about those we work with – including
personnel, suppliers, customers and business partners – based only on
appropriate considerations, not on the basis of inappropriate considerations
such as discrimination or coercion.
We are open, honest and stand by our responsibilities. We are reliable part-
ners and make no promises we cannot keep. And we expect our employees
to act with integrity.
Basic behavioral
Baresqicu bireehmaevinotrsal
requirements8
A .3. Responsibility for the reputation of Siemens
To a substantial degree, the reputation of Siemens is determined by our
actions and by the way each and every one of us presents and conducts
himself/herself. Illegal or inappropriate behavior on the part of even a
single employee can cause the Company considerable damage.
Every employee should be concerned with maintaining and promoting
the good reputation of Siemens in the respective country.
Basic behavioral
Baresqicu bireehmaevinotrsal
requirements9
A .4. Management, responsibility and supervision
The culture of integrity and compliance in an organization starts at the It is the responsibility of all managers to see to it that there are no viola-
top. All managers must fulfill their duties of organization and supervision. tions of laws within their area of responsibility that proper supervision
All managers bear responsibility for all employees entrusted to them. All could have prevented. They still remain responsible, even if they delegate
managers must earn respect by exemplary personal behavior, perfor- particular tasks.
mance, openness, and social competence. This means, among other
things, that each manager must emphasize the importance of ethical
conduct and compliance, make them regular topics of everyday business
and promote them through personal leadership and training. Each man-
ager must also set clear, ambitious and realistic goals and lead by exam-
ple.
Managers should permit their employees as much individual responsibility
and leeway as possible, while making it clear that compliance is required
under all circumstances, at all times. All managers shall also be accessible
in case employees wish to raise compliance concerns, ask questions or
discuss a professional or personal problem.
These responsibilities of managers do not relieve employees of their own
responsibilities. We must all work together to comply with applicable laws
and Siemens policies. These specific manager responsibilities are listed
here to give employees an idea of the leadership and support they should
expect from their superiors.
Basic behavioral
Baresqicu bireehmaevinotrsal
requirements10
In particular, the following duties apply to managers:
1. The manager must carefully select employees based on their personal
and professional qualifications and suitability. The duty of due care
increases with the significance of the task the employee must perform
(duty of selection).
2. The manager must give precise, complete and binding instructions to
employees, especially with regard to compliance with the law (duty to
give instructions).
3. The manager must ensure that compliance with the law is continuously
monitored (duty of monitoring).
4. The manager must clearly communicate to employees the importance
of integrity and compliance in everyday business. He/she must also
communicate that violations of the law are unacceptable and will
have employment consequences (duty of communication).
Basic behavioral
Baresqicu bireehmaevinotrsal
requirements11
B. Treatment of business partners and third parties
Treatment of
business partners
and third parties12
B.1. Fair competition and anti-trust laws
Fair competition permits markets to develop freely – with attendant social Moreover, employees may not obtain competitive intelligence by using
benefits. Accordingly, the principle of fairness also applies to competition industrial espionage, bribery, theft or electronic eavesdropping, or com-
for market share. municate knowingly false information about a competitor or its products
or services.
Every employee is obliged to abide by the rules of fair competition.
Anti-trust evaluation can be difficult, particularly because the rules can
differ from country to country and from case to case. For example, in
many places special anti-trust law requirements apply to large companies.
Here are examples of the types of behavior that can lead to a violation of
anti-trust laws. Employees may not:
• talk to competitors about prices, output, capacities, sales, bids, profits,
profit margins, costs, methods of distribution or any other parameter
that determines or influences the Company’s competitive behavior
with the aim to solicit parallel behavior from the competitor,
• enter into an agreement with a competitor not to compete, to restrict
dealings with suppliers, to submit bogus offers for bidding or to divide
up customers, markets, territories or production programs,
• have any influence on the resale prices charged by our purchasers, or
attempt to make them restrict the export or import of goods supplied
by Siemens.
Treatment of
buTsrineaetsms peanrtt nofe rs
baunsdin tehsirsd p paartrntieerss
and third parties13
B.2. Anti-corruption: offering and granting advantages
We compete fairly for orders with the quality and the price of our innovative
products and services, not by offering improper benefits to others. As a
result, no employee may directly or indirectly offer, promise, grant or autho-
rize the giving of money or anything else of value to a government official
to influence official action or obtain an improper advantage. The same
applies to a private commercial counterparty in a business transaction in
consideration for an improper advantage. Any offer, promise, grant or gift
must comply with applicable laws and Siemens’ policies, and must not raise
an appearance of bad faith or unsuitableness. This means that no such offer,
promise, grant or gift may be made if it could reasonably be understood as
an effort to improperly influence a government official or as a bribe to a
commercial counterparty to grant Siemens a business advantage.
The term government official is defined broadly to include officials or
employees of any government or other public body, agency or legal entity,
at any level, including officers or employees of stateowned enterprises and
public international organizations. It also includes candidates for political
office, political party officials and employees, as well as political parties.
In addition, employees may also not give money or anything of value
indirectly (for example, to a consultant, agent, intermediary, business
partner or other third party) if the circumstances indicate that all or part
of may possibly be directly or indirectly passed on to a government official
to influence official action or obtain an improper advantage or to a private
commercial counterparty in consideration for an unfair advantage in a
business transaction.
Treatment of
buTsrineaetsms peanrtt nofe rs
baunsdin tehsirsd p paartrntieerss
and third parties14
For that reason, employees responsible for hiring consultants, agents,
partners in joint ventures or comparable entities must take action as
appropriate to:
• ensure that those third parties understand and will abide by Siemens’
anti-corruption policies or comparable equivalents,
• evaluate the qualifications and reputation of such third parties, and
• include appropriate provisions in agreements and contracts designed
to protect Siemens.
This applies in particular, but not only if they have contact with govern-
ment officials on behalf of Siemens.
Finally, each investment decision made by the Company – whether it is the
purchase of a controlling interest in a company or a minority interest, or a
joint venture arrangement – must be based on a prior compliance check.
Treatment of
buTsrineaetsms peanrtt nofe rs
baunsdin tehsirsd p paartrntieerss
and third parties15
B.3. Anti-corruption: demanding and accepting advantages
Employees are not permitted to use their jobs to solicit, to demand, ac-
cept, obtain or be promised advantages. This does not apply to the accep-
tance of occasional gifts of purely symbolic value or meals or entertain-
ment reasonable in value that are consistent with local customs and
practices and Siemens policies. Any other gifts, meals or entertainment
must be refused.
Treatment of
buTsrineaetsms peanrtt nofe rs
baunsdin tehsirsd p paartrntieerss
and third parties16
B.4. Political contributions, charitable donations and sponsoring
Siemens does not make political contributions (donations to politicians, Sponsoring means any contribution in money or in kind by Siemens
political parties or political organizations). towards an event organized by a third party in return for the opportunity
to advertise the Siemens brands by, for example, displaying the Siemens
As a responsible member of society, Siemens makes monetary or product logo, being mentioned in the opening or closing addresses, or the partici-
donations for education and science, art and culture, and social and humani- pation of a speaker on a discussion panel, as well as tickets to the event.
tarian projects. Sponsorships for which Siemens receives advertising are not
considered donations, nor are contributions to industry associations or fees All sponsoring contributions must be transparent, pursuant to written
for memberships in organizations that serve business interests. agreement, for legitimate business purposes, and commensurate with the
consideration offered by the event host.
Some donations are always prohibited, including donations
Contributions may not be promised, offered or made to secure unjustified
1. to individuals and for-profit organizations, competitive advantages for Siemens or for other improper purposes, and
2. paid to private accounts, they may not be made towards events organized by individuals or organiza-
tions that have goals incompatible with Siemens’ corporate principles or that
3. to organizations whose goals are incompatible with Siemens’ corporate
would damage Siemens’ reputation.
principles, or
4. that would damage Siemens’ reputation.
All donations must be transparent. This means, among other things, that the
recipient’s identity and planned use of the donation must be clear and the
reason and purpose for the donation must be justifiable and documented.
Quasi-donations, meaning donations which appear to be compensation for
a service but are substantially larger than the value of the service, are pro-
hibited as violating the principles of transparency.
Treatment of
buTsrineaetsms peanrtt nofe rs
baunsdin tehsirsd p paartrntieerss
and third parties17
B.5. Government procurement
Siemens competes for contracts from government entities and govern-
mentowned businesses around the world. In all of Siemens’ dealings and
interactions with governments, we act in a manner that is transparent,
honest and accurate.
We comply with all applicable laws and regulations related to government
procurements, including laws prohibiting efforts to improperly influence
government officials.
Treatment of
buTsrineaetsms peanrtt nofe rs
baunsdin tehsirsd p paartrntieerss
and third parties18
B.6. Anti-money laundering
Money laundering is the process of disguising the nature and source of
money connected with criminal activity – such as terrorism, drug trafficking
or bribery – by integrating dirty money into the stream of commerce so that
it appears legitimate or its true source or owner cannot be identified.
It is Siemens’ objective to conduct business with reputable customers,
consultants and business partners who are involved in lawful business
activities and whose funds are derived from legitimate sources. We do not
facilitate money laundering.
All employees must abide by applicable anti-money laundering laws and
Siemens’ procedures, such as finavigate®, designed to detect and deter
suspicious forms of payment or customers or other transactions that could
involve money laundering. To avoid problems in this area, employees must
be attentive to and report suspicious behavior by customers, consultants
and business partners. Employees must also follow all accounting, record-
keeping and financial reporting requirements applicable to cash and pay-
ments in connection with other transactions and contracts.
Treatment of
buTsrineaetsms peanrtt nofe rs
baunsdin tehsirsd p paartrntieerss
and third parties19
B.7. Trade controls
Siemens complies with applicable export controls and customs laws and
regulations in the countries where it does business. Export controls gener-
ally apply to the transfer of goods, services, hardware, software or tech-
nology across certain national borders, including by email.
Export control laws may be triggered in connection with direct or indirect
exports to or imports from sanctioned countries or parties, who, for
example, may be designated based on national security grounds or be-
cause of participation in criminal activity. Violations of these laws and
regulations may lead to serious penalties, including fines and governmen-
tal withdrawal of simplified import and export procedures (interruption of
seamless supply chain).
Employees involved in the import and export of goods, services, hard-
ware, software or technology as described above must follow applicable
economic sanctions, export control and import laws and regulations and
any related policies and procedures established by the business in which
they work.
Treatment of
buTsrineaetsms peanrtt nofe rs
baunsdin tehsirsd p paartrntieerss
and third parties20
B.8. Working with suppliers
Siemens as a company expects its suppliers to share Siemens’ values and
comply with all applicable laws. Furthermore, Siemens expects its suppliers
to act in accordance with the following principles, similarly adopted by
Siemens, concerning responsibilities vis-à-vis stakeholders and the environ-
ment:
• Comply with all applicable laws,
• prohibit corruption,
• respect basic human rights of employees,
• comply with laws prohibiting child labor,
• take responsibility for the health and safety of their employees,
• act in accordance with applicable statutory and international standards
regarding environmental protection, and
• promote compliance among their suppliers with Siemens’ Code of
Conduct for Suppliers.
Treatment of
buTsrineaetsms peanrtt nofe rs
baunsdin tehsirsd p paartrntieerss
and third parties21
C. Avoiding conflicts of interest
It is the duty of Siemens employees to make business decisions in the employee exercises or is capable of exercising a direct or indirect
best interest of Siemens, not based on their own personal interests. influence upon whether that company receives a contract from
Conflicts of interest arise when employees engage in activities or Siemens.
advance personal interests at the expense of Siemens’ interests.
A conflict can take the form of a business relationship with, or an
Employees must inform their supervisor of any personal interest they interest in, a competitor or customer of Siemens, or participation in
could possibly have in connection with the execution of their profes- sideline activities that prevent employees from being able to fulfill
sional duties. their responsibilities at Siemens. It is important that all employees
recognize and avoid conflicts of interest, or even the appearance of a
Employees are not permitted to use, for their own personal contracts conflict of interest, as they conduct their professional activities.
or orders, companies with which they have business dealings as part
of their activities for Siemens if they could derive any advantage from
the personal contract or order. This is particularly applicable if the
Avoiding conflicts
of interest22
C.1. Competing with Siemens
An employee may not operate or assist a company that competes with
Siemens or engage in any competing activities.
Avoiding conflicts
Avooidfi ningt ecroensftlicts
of interest23
C.2. Sideline work
Employees may not engage in sideline work that competes with Siemens.
Before employees may engage in other sideline work for remuneration
they must notify Siemens and seek written permission.
Occasional writing activities, lectures, and comparable occasional activi-
ties are not considered sideline work. Permission will not be granted if it is
detrimental to the interests of Siemens. Permission may be refused if
employees have dealings in the course of their official Siemens’ duties
with the company in question. Previously granted permission may be
revoked on these grounds as well.
Avoiding conflicts
Avooidfi ningt ecroensftlicts
of interest24
C.3. Interests in third companies
Employees who directly or indirectly hold or acquire a stake in a competi-
tor company, must disclose this fact to their personnel department if this
stake gives them the opportunity to exert influence on the management
of that company. It can be assumed, as a general rule, that the possibility
of exerting influence on the management exists when a stake exceeds
5 % of a competitor company’s total capital.
Employees who directly or indirectly hold or acquire an interest in a
Siemens business partner or a company in which Siemens has ownership
shares also have to disclose this fact to the personnel department respon-
sible, if they have dealings with the business partner or company in the
course of their official duties or if they will hold a position in that company.
For shares in listed companies, this applies only if the interest exceeds 5 %
of total equity.
Once an interest in a third company has been disclosed, the Company
may take suitable measures to eliminate any conflict of interest.
Avoiding conflicts
Avooidfi ningt ecroensftlicts
of interest25
handling of
company property26
D. Handling of company property
There are many devices and pieces of equipment in Siemens offices and
workshops, such as telephones, copying machines, computers, software,
Internet/Intranet, machines and other tools, including e-mail and answer-
ing machine systems. These are only to be used for Company business and
not for personal gain. Exceptions, and payment if applicable, can be
agreed upon locally, provided that the use of Siemens property does not:
• relate to any illegal activity,
• cause an actual or perceived conflict of interest, or
• lead to significant added costs, disruption of Siemens business or other
adverse effects for the Company, including by interfering with an em-
ployee’s assigned duties or the assigned duties of other employees.
In no case may information be retrieved or transmitted that furthers or
incites racial hatred, glorification of violence or other criminal acts, or
contains material which is sexually offensive within the respective culture.
Employees are not permitted without the consent of their supervisor to
make records, files, video or audio recordings, or reproductions using
Siemens equipment or facilities if the activity is not directly related to
Company business.
handling of
comhpaanndyli npgro opfe rty
company property27
E. Handling of Information
Handling of
information28
E.1. Records and financial integrity
Open and effective communication requires accurate and truthful reporting.
This applies equally to relationships with investors, employees, customers
and business partners, as well as with the public and all governmental
offices.
Siemens is also required to maintain sound processes and controls so that
transactions are executed according to management’s authorization.
Siemens must also prevent and detect unauthorized use of Siemens assets.
All Siemens employees are required to make sure that the Siemens books
and records they create or are otherwise responsible for are:
• complete,
• accurate,
• honestly reflect each transaction or expenditure, and
• are timely and in accordance with applicable accounting rules and
standards
whether or not the information will be included in a public filing or provided
to a government agency. Such books and records include all data, certifica-
tions and other written materials provided for financial reporting and disclo-
sure purposes as well as materials collected for other purposes. These also
include internal expense records (such as expense account reports).
Handling of
iHnafonrdmlinagti oonf
information29
E. 2. Confidentiality
Confidentiality must be maintained with regard to Siemens’ internal confi-
dential or proprietary information that has not been made known to the
public. Nonpublic information from or concerning suppliers, customers,
employees, agents, consultants and other third parties must also be
protected in accordance with legal and contractual requirements.
Confidential or proprietary information may include, in particular:
• details concerning a company’s organization and equipment, prices,
sales, profits, markets, customers and other matters of business,
• information on manufacturing or research and development, and
• internal reporting figures.
The obligation to maintain confidentiality extends beyond the termination
of the relevant relationship, since the disclosure of confidential information
could cause harm to Siemens’ business, clients or customers no matter when
it is disclosed.
Handling of
iHnafonrdmlinagti oonf
information30
E. 3. Data protection and data security
Access to the Intranet and Internet, worldwide electronic information
exchange and dialogue, and electronic business dealings are all crucial to
the effectiveness of each and every one of us, and for the success of the
business as a whole. However, the advantages of electronic communication
are tied to risks in terms of personal privacy protection and data security.
Effective foresight with regard to these risks is an important component of
information technology management, the leadership function, and also the
behavior of each individual.
Personal data may only be collected, processed, or used insofar as it is
necessary for pre-determined, clear, and legitimate purposes. In addition,
personal data must be maintained in a secure manner and appropriate
precautions should be taken when transmitting it. High standards must be
ensured with regard to data quality and technical protection against
unauthorized access. The use of the data must be transparent for those
concerned and the rights of those concerned must be safeguarded with
regard to use and correction of information and, if applicable, to objec-
tions pertaining to blocking, and deletion of information.
In some jurisdictions (such as the European Union) there are strict laws
and regulations pertaining to the collection and use of personal data,
including data on others, such as customers or business partners. All
employees must abide by such laws, to the extent they are applicable, to
protect the privacy of others.
Handling of
iHnafonrdmlinagti oonf
information31
E. 4. Insider trading rules
People who have inside information with regard to Siemens or another • technical or product developments,
company, such as a customer, supplier or joint venture partner whose • major management changes, joint ventures
securities are admitted to trading on a stock exchange or an organized and major business agreements, or
securities market, are not allowed to trade in these companies’ securities
• business relationships.
or in financial instruments the prices of which depend directly or indirect-
ly on these companies’ securities (insider securities).
Inside information is any specific information which is not public knowl-
edge relating to Siemens or such other issuer of insider securities, which, if
it became publicly known, would likely have a significant effect on the
price of the insider security. Such likelihood exists if a reasonable investor
would view the information as likely to have an impact on the price of the
security. It would also exist if a reasonable investor would take the infor-
mation into account in making an investment decision.
Inside information may be acquired as a result of an employee’s position
and responsibilities or inadvertently, and includes non-public information
about such things as:
• financial results,
• financial plans or budgets,
• dividend changes,
• significant mergers or acquisitions,
• divestitures,
• particularly important contract awards or strategic plans,
• major developments in litigation,
Handling of
iHnafonrdmlinagti oonf
information32
The disclosure of inside information is unauthorized whenever it is made
outside the normal scope of an insider’s work functions or professional
duties, or in fulfilling other duties on behalf of the issuer. This applies
both to information disclosed within Siemens and to information dis-
closed outside Siemens, including to journalists, financial analysts, cus-
tomers, consultants, family members, or friends. Furthermore, employees
must always make sure that insider-relevant information is secured or
kept under lock and key so that unauthorized persons cannot gain access
to it.
Persons who have inside information are not allowed to recommend that
a third party acquire or dispose securities for which that information is
relevant, or to otherwise induce a third party to do so.
Managers can be held personally liable for damages in some cases if an
employee violates insider trading rules and proper supervision could have
prevented the violation.
Additional or special insider trading rules and local law have to be com-
plied with, as applicable.
Handling of
iHnafonrdmlinagti oonf
information33
F. Environment, safety and health
Environment,
safety and health34
F.1. Environment and technical safety
Protecting the environment and conserving natural resources are high
priorities for our Company. Through management leadership and
employee commitment, Siemens strives to conduct its operations in a
manner that is safe for the environment and continually improves envi-
ronmental performance. A worldwide environmental management system
has been implemented by Siemens to ensure observation of the law and
sets high standards for this purpose. Beginning at the product develop-
ment stage, environmentally compatible design, technical safety and
health protection are fixed as targets.
All employees must contribute to these goals through their own behavior.
Environment,
saEfentvyi raonndm heenatl,t h
safety and health35
F. 2. Work Safety
Protecting the health and safety of employees in the workplace is a high
priority for Siemens. It is the responsibility of everyone to foster Siemens’
efforts to conduct its operations in a safe manner. The responsibility vis-à-
vis employees requires the best possible accidentprevention measures,
and applies to:
• the technical planning of workplaces, equipment and processes,
• safety management, and
• personal behavior in the everyday workplace.
The work environment must conform to the requirements of health-
oriented design.
All employees must constantly be attentive to work safety.
Environment,
saEfentvyi raonndm heenatl,t h
safety and health36
Complaints and
comments37
G. Complaints and comments
All employees may lodge a complaint with their supervisor, their compliance
officer, personnel manager or some other person/unit designated for this
purpose or with an existing internal works council.
Circumstances which point to a violation of the Business Conduct Guide-
lines are to be reported
• to the Chief Compliance Officer,
• to the Compliance Officer responsible for the Division,
Regional or Corporate Units,
• via the Tell Us reporting channel or
• to the Siemens Ombudsman
There is a special process for handling complaints related to accounting
practices.
All complaints can be submitted both confidentially and anonymously, and
all complaints will be investigated. Corrective measures will be implemented
if necessary.
All documentation will be kept confidential to the extent permitted by
law. No reprisal of any kind against complainants will be tolerated.
Complaints and
Cocmopmlaminetns tasnd
comments38
Compliance
implementation
and monitoring39
H. Compliance implement ation and monitoring
The management of Siemens throughout the world shall actively foster
the widespread distribution of the Business Conduct Guidelines and see to
it that they are implemented.
Compliance with the law and observance of the Business Conduct Guide-
lines shall be monitored worldwide in all Siemens companies on a regular
basis. This shall be done in accordance with applicable national procedures
and legal provisions.
An extensive compliance organization is in place at the level of Siemens,
the Divisions and Regions to ensure that the Siemens compliance system
is enforced.
Compliance
imCpolemmpelinatnacteio n
iamnpdl emmoennittoartiinogn
and monitoring40
Further information and contacts
Integrity is at the heart of all our actions. These Guidelines define what If a Siemens employee is not sure what the right thing to do is in a specific
integrity means for our business. But they can’t tell the whole story or case, there are many sources of information available to help, including
answer every question. the employee’s supervisor and Division, Regional or Corporate Compliance
Officer. Their responsibilities and contact details are available on the
Siemens‘ Compliance Intranet Web Site provides additional information Siemens Intranet.
that add content-related specifics to these Guidelines including detailed
regulations covering certain topics, related processes, tools, training mate- In addition, he has the option to e-mail us at:
rials and other aids as well as company-wide, frequently asked questions. askus.compliance@siemens.com
Further information including our Siemens Compliance Brochure can Moreover, if an employee has discovered a case of possible misconduct,
also be found on Siemens’ external Compliance Web Site. various options are available to report it. These include not only an em-
ployee’s supervisor and compliance officer but also the Compliance report-
ing channel Tell Us, now available 24/7 by phone and external Internet,
and the Siemens Ombudsman.
Further
infFourrmthaetiro n
ainnfdo crmonattaiocnts
and contacts41
Conventions and Recommendations
of International Organizations
In addition to the laws and regulations of individual countries, there are • International Bill of Human Rights consisting of the:
a number of Conventions and Recommendations from international orga- – Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the
nizations which are noteworthy. Although these documents are primarily – International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the
addressed to Member States and not directly to companies, they never- – International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.
theless function as important guidelines for the conduct of multinational • European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Funda-
companies and their employees. Siemens supports the requirements of mental Freedoms
these conventions and recommendations.
• ILO (International Labor Organization) Tripartite Declaration of Prin-
ciples concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy and ILO
Siemens is a participant in the United Nations Global Compact and regards
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at work (specially
its ten principles, as well as the rules laid down in the framework agree-
with following issues: elimination of child labor, abolition of forced
ment of the International Metalworkers‘ Federation (IMF), as binding for
labor, prohibition of discrimination, freedom of association and right
the entire Company. Otherwise, the Company´s internal arbitration
to collective bargaining)
arrangements apply.
• OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
Siemens is committed to embracing, supporting and enacting, within its • Agenda 21 on Sustainable Development (final document of the basic
further sphere of influence, the set of core values in the areas of human UN-conference on environment and development, Rio de Janeiro)
rights, labor standards, the environment, and anticorruption included
• UN Convention Against Corruption
therein as an integral part of its business strategy and operations.
Siemens supports the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and
In line with its Global Compact commitment Siemens therefore expects its
Human Rights. They provide important guidance for the further operation-
employees, suppliers and business partners around the globe to recognize
alization of the company’s responsibility to respect human rights.
and apply particularly the standards of the:
Conventions and
recommendations
of international
organizations42
Siemens AG
Legal and Compliance
Werner-von Siemens-Straße 1
80333 München
For the publisher:
Dr. Klaus Moosmayer
Edition:
September 2017
Copyrights:
All rights, also that of translation, reprint and copy or parts thereof
are reserved. No part of this work may be duplicated, reproduced,
processed, distributed or published in any form (photo copy, CDROM,
electronically, etc.) without the written consent of CSP. Changes to
graphics must be approved. This document will not be recalled in the
event of any alterations.
© 2017 Siemens AG, Berlin and München