137
Sony’s Purpose & Values
Overview Looking to the Future
The Sony Group Code of Conduct
Approach to Sustainability
Sony continuously assesses its risks and engages in ongoing reviews
and program improvements to maintain and elevate an ethical At a Glance 2022
corporate culture. Senior management continues to allocate necessary
Editorial Policy
resources to achieve Sony’s goal of ethical and responsible business
Business Overview
conduct and compliance with all applicable laws and regulations by
all Sony Group personnel. Sony’s Sustainability
Basic Approach
Materiality
Milestones
Alignment of our Purpose & Values through ethical and 2001: Established the Compliance Division in Sony Corporation (Current Environment
responsible conduct earns trust for the Sony brand and supports “Compliance & Privacy Department, Sony Group Corporation”)
2003: Adopted the Sony Group Code of Conduct Technology
Sony’s value creation.
Refresher training on the Sony Group Code of Conduct
Ethics and With this in mind, Sony’s ethics and compliance program is designed Establishment of the Compliance Hotline (Current “Sony Ethics & Employees
to comply with laws, manage key group-wide risks and foster an Compliance Hotline”) was delivered to all employees.
Respect for Human Rights
Establishment of the Global Compliance Network which consists
ethical corporate culture. The program is continuously improved
of regional offices of Global Entertainment & Americas, Europe,
Compliance based on both best practices and global regulatory expectations. Japan, East- Asia and Pan-Asia Responsible Supply Chain
2008: Established the Compliance Monitoring Function Quality and Customer Service
2009: Established the Compliance Leadership Team
Sony has also adopted in-depth group-wide policies, procedures and
2018: Revision of Sony Group Code of Conduct Community Engagement
controls for key risk areas such as antitrust, anti-corruption, and
privacy and personal information management. Senior management Ethics and Compliance
evidences its commitment to ethical business conduct by repeatedly
communicating the importance of staying true to the Code and Overview
leading by example. Global Ethics & Compliance Network
The Sony Group Code of Conduct
Structure Sony’s Ethics and Compliance Program
Privacy and Personal Information
Management
Sony instituted a global ethics & compliance network to ensure
effective oversight and implementation of our program by all Sony Customer-first Business Operations
Group companies.
Corporate Governance
Data Section
GRI Standards Content Index
Sustainability Report 2023138
Sony’s Purpose & Values
Global Ethics & The Sony Group Corporation Compliance & Global Ethics & Compliance Network
The Sony Group Code of Conduct
Privacy Department:
Executives in charge of Compliance Approach to Sustainability
Compliance Network Designs and oversees the Global Network and Sony’s group-wide
ethics & compliance program with support of the Compliance At a Glance 2022
Headquarters: Compliance & Privacy Department
Leadership Team. It also works with the Compliance Leadership
Editorial Policy
Team members, local business unit leaders, and compliance
Compliance Leadership Business Overview
members to conduct comprehensive risk assessments and
Team
implement compliance policies, procedures, and internal controls to Sony’s Sustainability
Overview prevent and detect unethical behavior. It provides oversight of
Compliance Monitoring Materiality
investigations related to potential legal or policy violations.
Function
Sony’s global ethics & compliance program is designed to support Environment
ethical and responsible business conduct. It is a shared endeavor The Compliance Leadership Team:
Technology
Regional Compliance Network
among directors, management, and employees at all levels here at Assists in identifying, developing, and implementing best practices in
Sony, with each person taking ownership and responsibility for ethical compliance strategies and compliance-related measures. The team Employees
business conduct and compliance with the law and in every interaction. is comprised of the Senior Executive in charge of Compliance, all
Respect for Human Rights
Sony established a group-wide ethics & compliance network of Regional Compliance Officers, the Ethics & Compliance Strategy Oversight by the Board of Directors
Responsible Supply Chain
experienced compliance personnel (the “Global Network”) to Leaders and the Head of Compliance Monitoring. and Audit Committee
strengthen effective implementation of the ethics & compliance Quality and Customer Service
program throughout Sony Group. The Global Network (i) establishes The Compliance Monitoring Function:
Community Engagement
a centralized risk management framework in line with best practices; Helps to measure the effectiveness and maturity of Sony’s global The Sony Group Corporation Board of Director’s Audit Committee
(ii) provides necessary support and guidance to compliance ethics & compliance program by conducting periodic and global- provides oversight of Sony’s program. The Audit Committee receives Ethics and Compliance
personnel embedded in the business; and (iii) monitors compliance based assessments on program implementation and by undertaking monthly reports as well as periodic, in-person updates concerning
with the risk management framework to provide effective oversight, risk-based compliance audits and validations of internal controls. the ethics & compliance program’s activities. Reports to the Audit Overview
address gaps between the ethics & compliance program’s Committee include information about global regulatory developments, Global Ethics & Compliance Network
requirements and actual operations, and drives consistency and Regional Compliance Officers: top and emerging risks, and data used to inform program design,
The Sony Group Code of Conduct
continuous program improvement across all Sony Group companies. Are appointed by the Senior Vice President in charge of Compliance implementation and effectiveness such as data derived from program
Sony’s Ethics and Compliance Program
and are responsible for implementing and overseeing the ethics & assessments, audit and investigation results, compliance hotline metrics,
compliance program at all Sony Group companies in their region to ethics culture survey results, and employee training data. It also includes Privacy and Personal Information
Roles promote ethical and responsible business conduct and prevent and information about program improvements. The Sony Group Corporation Management
detect violations of laws, regulations, and/or company policies. Each Board of Directors also receives annual updates on compliance Customer-first Business Operations
Executives in charge of Compliance: Regional Compliance Officer must also ensure that each Sony Group related risks and Sony’s global ethics & compliance program.
Corporate Governance
Provide top-level leadership for the Global Network and oversee company in their region has designated appropriate personnel and
Sony’s global ethics and compliance program. resources to ensure effective implementation of Sony’s global ethics Data Section
& compliance program.
GRI Standards Content Index
Sustainability Report 2023139
Sony’s Purpose & Values
The Sony Group • Fair dealing (fair business practices) working for Sony. Sony provides additional translations as
The Sony Group Code of Conduct
• Privacy (e.g., data privacy of employees, customers, consumers) necessitated by changing workforce demographics.
Approach to Sustainability
Code of Conduct and cyber security
Sony Group Code of Conduct [PDF: 2.63MB]
• Respect for human rights At a Glance 2022
• Financial integrity and anti-fraud
Editorial Policy
• Speaking up / no retaliation
• Tax compliance Business Overview
Sony’s Sustainability
Sony’s Code for Ethical and Sony periodically updates the Code as part of its continued effort to
Materiality
Responsible Business Conduct maintain the Code’s effectiveness and provide clear direction and
resources to all Sony Group personnel on Sony’s key risk areas and Environment
ethical principles.
Technology
The Code is the cornerstone of Sony’s ethics and compliance program
and applies to all Sony board members, officers and employees Sony also recognizes its responsibility as a member of a global Employees
(“Sony Group personnel”). society. The Code reflects principles set out in relevant ethical
Respect for Human Rights
guidelines, which include (among others):
Responsible Supply Chain
The Sony Group Code of Conduct shows how we should earn trust for
the Sony brand through ethical and responsible conduct, in line with • Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Quality and Customer Service
Sony’s Purpose & Values, specifically the Value of Integrity and Sincerity. Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
Community Engagement
The Code provides a set of guiding principles to conduct our • The United Nations Global Compact
business activities on a principled path. Staying true to the Code • The United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Ethics and Compliance
helps ensure Sony’s long-term success, which in turn is based on • The United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights
the trust of stakeholders. • Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Overview
Sony engages with colleagues, business partners and the communities Global Ethics & Compliance Network
in which Sony does business based on the Code. Sony also actively participates in Keidanren (Japan Business Federation),
The Sony Group Code of Conduct
an alliance of Japan’s leading corporations and observes the standards
Sony’s Ethics and Compliance Program
Please refer to the below page for the overview of the Code. in the Charter of Corporate Behavior of Keidanren. These standards
are also embodied in the Code. Privacy and Personal Information
The Sony Group Code of Conduct / Approach to Sustainability Management
The Code confirms Sony’s commitment to its core ethical values in The Code was approved by the Sony Group Corporation Board of Customer-first Business Operations
every aspect of its business operations and includes guidance on key Directors and adopted by the decision-making bodies of every Sony
Corporate Governance
risk areas such as: Group company (“Sony Group” or “Sony Group companies”) as their
respective code of conduct. Sony Group managers, at all levels, are Data Section
• Accurate recordkeeping responsible for promoting the Code as part of their ongoing
• Anti-corruption / bribery commitment to creating a culture of integrity and ensuring ethical GRI Standards Content Index
• Antitrust / fair competition and responsible business conduct. The Code, which is available on
• Avoiding conflicts of interest Sony’s website and on each Sony Group company’s intranet, has
• Diversity / anti-discrimination / equal employment opportunity / been translated into 22 languages to help ensure that it is clearly
fair labor and employment practice / Workplace health and safety understood by Sony Group personnel and relevant third parties
Sustainability Report 2023140
Sony’s Purpose & Values
Sony’s Ethics and Risk Assessment Areas under Ethics Policies and Procedures
The Sony Group Code of Conduct
& Compliance Program
Approach to Sustainability
Compliance Program Sony’s global policies provide necessary rules and procedures to help
ensure ethical and responsible business conduct and compliance with At a Glance 2022
Sony conducts ongoing risk assessments to help assure that Sony’s applicable laws and regulations. For example, Sony maintains global
Editorial Policy
ethics and compliance program activities effectively mitigates and policies in each of the following risk areas:
manages relevanttop risks. When conducting risk assessments, the • Sony Group Anti-Bribery Policy Business Overview
Regional Compliance Officer for each region evaluates relevant • Sony Group Third Party Engagement Policy Sony’s Sustainability
The Basics compliance risks for each Sony Group company in the region in • Sony Group Record Retention Policy
conjunction with each such company’s management and • Sony Group Global Policy on Antitrust / Competition Law Compliance Materiality
Sony’s ethics & compliance program starts with “Tone from the Top.” compliance personnel. • Global Insider Trading Prevention Policy Environment
Senior management continuously communicates the importance of Key legal and compliance risk areas assessed include:
Technology
being true to Sony’s core ethical values. Their commitment is • Antitrust These policies are regularly communicated to all Sony Group
supported by a robust ethics & compliance program aligned with • Bribery personnel and relevant third parties as appropriate. Policies are Employees
business processes, including ongoing risk assessments, policies and • Conflict of Interest regularly reviewed to ensure that they clearly state Sony’s direction
Respect for Human Rights
procedures, training and messaging, third party management, • Economic Sanctions Laws on important matters, reflect current legal and business requirements,
reporting mechanisms, and monitoring and audits. Sony continuously • Environmental Laws and are effectively implemented by the relevant business units. Responsible Supply Chain
improves its program in accordance with regulatory guidance and • Financial Laws Quality and Customer Service
other leading practices that organizations with mature ethics & • Fraud Antitrust and Competition Law Compliance
Community Engagement
compliance programs have found to be effective. • Information Security Laws Sony seeks to outperform competition based on the merits of its
The following chart shows the key elements of our compliance • Infringement of Intellectual Property products and services, not by unfair business practices. Sony Ethics and Compliance
program, based on regulatory guidance and leading practices. • Insider Trading complies with all antitrust and competition laws and does its part to
• Labor and Employment Laws promote a fair and competitive marketplace. Sony has implemented Overview
• Money Laundering the Sony Group Policy on Antitrust / Competition Law Compliance, Global Ethics & Compliance Network
Ongoing Risk • Privacy / Personal Information Protection Laws which explains the purpose of competition laws and guides
Assessment The Sony Group Code of Conduct
Monitoring and audits P po rolic ci ee ds u a rn ed s • • P Sero cd uu ric tit e S s a Lf ae wty s / Product Compliance e chm ap nl go ey se e as n don d c eo vem lop pli man ec ne t sw ii nth c s ou mch p ela tiw tios. n S lo an wy s p ae nr ds o mn an ie nl t m aino nitor Sony’s Ethics and Compliance Program
Third Party
C o nti En nu so uru es
E
I tm hicp ar lo av ne dm ent
Training and
•
•
S Tu rap dp ely
C
C oh ma pin
li
aL naw ces u thp e- sto
e
- ld aa wt se
.
c *o Sn ot nro yl s h,
a
p so ali lc si oe s d, ea vn ed
lo
p pr eo dc e rod bu ure ss
t,
f co ur sc to om mp izli ea dn c tre
a
iw ni it nh
g
P Mr aiv na ac gy ea mnd
e
nP tersonal Information
Management Responsible Conduct messaging • Other Laws courses to raise awareness regarding competition laws and to Customer-first Business Operations
reinforce the policy requirements.
Reporting mechanism M Coa mna mg ie tmm ee nn tt * Sony’s material legal and regulatory proceedings in FY2022 are disclosed in our Corporate Governance
Compliance Autonomy Form 20-F: “Item 8. Financial Information A. Consolidated Statements and Other Data Section
and Resources
Financial Information. Legal Proceedings,” p. 87.
GRI Standards Content Index
Sustainability Report 2023141
Sony’s Purpose & Values
Training and Messaging Third Party Management Anti-Bribery and Corruption
The Sony Group Code of Conduct
Sony believes that corruption negatively impacts the communities
Approach to Sustainability
Sony adopted a “Compliance Education Protocol” to ensure that Sony established internal rules and procedures to help ensure and economies where we do business and that it must be eliminated
minimum ethics & compliance training and communications in critical compliance with applicable laws and regulations related to potential to realize a sustainable, inclusive, and transparent society. One of the At a Glance 2022
risk areas are provided to all employees and relevant third parties third party risks, which include: anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, core principles set forth in the Code is the need to give due
Editorial Policy
working for Sony. For example, all Sony Group personnel and relevant economic sanctions, trade controls, tax matters, and supply chain consideration to the impact of our business activities on the interest
Business Overview
third parties working for Sony are required to complete comprehensive laws related to the procurement of electronics products. of our stakeholders. The Code prohibits all types of corrupt practices.
Code of Conduct training and Proper Workplace Conduct training within These rules are designed to help assure that Sony only does business Sony also adopted a global policies (“Sony Group Anti-Bribery Policy” Sony’s Sustainability
90 days of first providing services to Sony. Refresher comprehensive with reputable third parties. and “Sony Group Third Party Engagement Policy”) that contains
Materiality
Code of Conduct training must also be completed at least every four rules and procedures designed to prevent corruption involving
years. In addition, in-depth training on key Code of Conduct topics government officials. Environment
Third Party Due Diligence
must be completed at least once every two years and training on Sony closely monitors global anti-corruption laws and enforcement
Technology
information security and privacy must be completed at least annually. The Sony Group Third Party Engagement Policy was established to trends to ensure that Sony’s global ethics & compliance program and
Additional compliance training is mandated based upon risk help ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations related internal controls properly address these evolving risks. Employees
assessments and employee and third-party roles and responsibilities. to potential third party risks, which include: anti-corruption, anti-money
Respect for Human Rights
Key ethics & compliance training includes: laundering, economic sanctions, trade controls, tax matters, and Sony’s Anti-Bribery and Corruption Program
• Anti-Bribery supply chain laws related to the procurement of electronics products. Responsible Supply Chain
Code of Conduct &
• Third Party Engagement This policy describes the methodology for assessing the risk profile Anti-Bribery Policy & Quality and Customer Service
• Antitrust and Fair Competition for higher risk transactions and includes risk-based due diligence and Third Party Engagement Policy
Community Engagement
• Import / Export Trade Compliance pre-approval requirements. Required due diligence is performed by
• Manager Training the employees responsible for the transaction with support from Ethics and Compliance
Risk assessment & Communication
Furthermore, frequent messaging concerning Code topics and key legal, finance and accounting as appropriate. The results of due updating the policy through training
risk areas is provided to all Sony Group personnel and relevant third diligence determine whether the transaction can proceed or whether Overview
parties working for Sony. it can only proceed subject to additional safeguards. Ongoing Global Ethics & Compliance Network
monitoring for red flags is required and due diligence must be Robust procedures &
The Sony Group Code of Conduct
internal controls
refreshed periodically after the commencement of the transaction.
Sony’s Ethics and Compliance Program
All personnel involved in third party onboarding, including relevant
personnel in Sony’s finance, accounting, trade controls and legal Privacy and Personal Information
functions are required to receive training on this policy. Policies Management
• The Code prohibits improper payments in every transaction, Customer-first Business Operations
whether with a government official or with a private party.
• The Sony Group Anti-Bribery Policy provides rules and procedures Corporate Governance
designed to prevent government corruption including pre-approval Data Section
rules and limitations on the amount and type of permitted
GRI Standards Content Index
expenditures.
• The Sony Group Third Party Engagement Policy provides rules and
risk-based procedures, including due diligence and pre-approvals
for any third party that may interact with a government official on
Sony’s behalf.
Sustainability Report 2023142
Sony’s Purpose & Values
Communication through Training corruption laws and regulations and Sony’s Anti-Bribery Policy and
The Sony Group Code of Conduct
• Sony provides extensive training and support to assist local Third Party Engagement Policy.
Approach to Sustainability
management with policy compliance. For example, all Sony • Concerns are promptly investigated via the Global Network and
employees receive training on anti-bribery and corruption legal department of each subsidiary. Appropriate action for the At a Glance 2022
expectations as part of the Code of Conduct training upon hire. case such as disciplinary, remedial and/or corrective action is
Editorial Policy
Refresher training is also provided at least every four years considered and implemented. Such remediation activities are
Business Overview
thereafter. monitored until completed.
• In addition, employees who are at a higher risk for interactions with Sony’s Sustainability
government officials (i.e., senior management, marketing, sales, Risk Assessment & Updating Policy
procurement and any other employees identified as dealing with • Sony conducts periodic anti-corruption assessments and audits of Materiality
government officials) receive more focused anti-corruption training its business to raise overall awareness, detect potential misconduct, Environment
at least every two years and more frequently if indicated by risk and monitor compliance with anti-corruption laws and policy.
Technology
assessments. This enhanced training includes training on Sony’s • Based on these assessments, Sony updated the Sony Group
specific policy pre-approval and due diligence requirements. Anti-Bribery Policy and adopted the Sony Group Third Party Employees
• For personnel in Sony’s control functions (legal, finance, Engagement Policy in 2023.
Respect for Human Rights
accounting, other control personnel) the above described training
Responsible Supply Chain
is supplemented by live, in-person training. Sony continues to leverage opportunities to share both knowledge
and best practices across its system.* Quality and Customer Service
Robust Procedures & Internal Controls
* Sony’s material legal and regulatory proceedings in FY2022 are disclosed in our
Community Engagement
• Sony has implemented robust internal controls and accounting Form 20-F: “Item 8. Financial Information A. Consolidated Statements and Other
processes designed to detect and prevent violations of company Financial Information. Legal Proceedings,” p. 87. Ethics and Compliance
policies relating to improper payment risks and to ensure accurate
books and records. Overview
• Third parties (including intermediaries such as distributors and sub- Elimination of Anti-Social Forces Global Ethics & Compliance Network
agents) who interact with government officials on Sony’s behalf, Sony strongly opposes anti-social forces that threaten to disrupt the
The Sony Group Code of Conduct
joint venture partners, parties to acquisition targets and certain order and safety of the community. Sony will not entertain
Sony’s Ethics and Compliance Program
investments are subject to risk based due diligence. In accordance relationships with members of anti-social forces. Furthermore, Sony
with the due diligence procedures specified based on risk levels, will not give economic benefits to, or accept illegal demands from, Privacy and Personal Information
Management
including but not limited to whether the transaction involves any any anti-social force. Sony ensures that it does not do business with
red flags or high risk territories that Sony specifically identifies in its members of organized crime and other anti-social forces by Customer-first Business Operations
polices, types of transactions and whether the transaction involves performing due diligence procedures on its business partners and
Corporate Governance
any intermediaries such as distributors and sub-agents, employees providing relevant communications to its employees.
handling the transaction and professional functions such as Data Section
financial department, accounting department, or the legal
GRI Standards Content Index
department in each company perform due diligence together as
appropriate. Due diligence is performed periodically thereafter if
the transaction is continuous in its nature. Any transacting parties
(including intermediaries such as distributors and sub-agents) who
pose high risks must also agree to abide by applicable anti-
Sustainability Report 2023143
Sony’s Purpose & Values
Reporting Mechanism How Sony Operates the Hotline / workplace. 12% was related to business integrity.
How Sony Investigates Reported Matters The Sony Group Code of Conduct
(Sony Ethics & Compliance Hotline)
Approach to Sustainability
FY2022 Reported Concerns by category
At a Glance 2022
Misuse, Misappropriation of Corporate Assets Accounting, Auditing and
Sony believes that a “speak up / listen up” culture—where employees Executives in 11 2% Financial Reporting
Editorial Policy
charge of Compliance Environment, Health and Safety 5 1%
are encouraged to raise concerns and feel confident that they can do
29 6%
Business Overview
so without fear of retaliation—is a key to early detection and prevention
Other
of ethical and regulatory problems. Supervise Report 36 8% Sony’s Sustainability
Contact Report Sony Group HR, Diversity and
Corporation Business Integrity Workplace Respect Materiality
Multiple Reporting Channels Compliance & Audit Committee 54 12% Total 316 70%
Privacy Department 451 Environment
Sony provides many different types of resources to employees to
Regional Compliance Technology
enable them to raise concerns, including the Sony Group Ethics & Officers
Compliance Hotline (“Hotline”). Investigates and Employees
Resolve
Respect for Human Rights
Notes: The figures in percentages are rounded to the nearest whole number wherefore the
Responsible Supply Chain
Web site All concerns raised through the Hotline are investigated independently total does not sum up to one hundred percent.
available in of ordinary internal reporting structures. Third party representatives, Quality and Customer Service
avaiP lah bo len e 2 c 4a l hls ours 33 languages P avh ao in lae b c lea l il ns following the receipt of concerns, check possible conflicts of interest In FY2022, 53 concerns were substantiated and remediated as Community Engagement
a day, 7 days 50 languages before providing necessary information to the appropriate Regional appropriate. The remainder includes cases which were unsubstantiated,
a week Compliance Office (the “Office”). The Office reviews the information and cases under investigation, among others. Ethics and Compliance
and determines what initial actions are appropriate. The Office
investigates the allegation (or ask appropriate department to investigate Overview
the allegation) under the oversight of the Regional Compliance Officer, Global Ethics & Compliance Network
collect more information, or take other actions as appropriate. The
The Sony Group Code of Conduct
Office also works with legal and/or other subject matter experts to
Sony’s Ethics and Compliance Program
determine how best to investigate and resolve the allegations.
The Hotline is available online (in 33 different languages) or by Management will take corrective action to improve business operating Privacy and Personal Information
Management
phone, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The phone lines are systems or take disciplinary action against employees who have
staffed by specially trained third-party representatives, with violated the law or company policy, when the facts warrant doing so. Customer-first Business Operations
translators in up to 50 different languages. All information provided Each Regional Compliance Officer reviews all reports and responses
Corporate Governance
to the Hotline is handled confidentially. Calls to the Hotline are not in their region, as an added check to help assure matters are fully and
recorded or traced, and reporters may remain anonymous to the fairly addressed. The status of raised concerns is also reported monthly Data Section
extent permitted by law. to the Sony Group Corporation Compliance & Privacy Department,
GRI Standards Content Index
which, in turn provides a report to the Sony Group Corporation
Audit Committee.
In FY2022, the Hotline received 451 concerns. The pie chart below
shows the total number of concerns received in FY2022 by category.
70% of raised concerns was related to employees, diversity, and
Sustainability Report 2023144
Sony’s Purpose & Values
The table below are examples of issues raised through our Hotline, including information about how these issues were addressed. Monitoring / Audit
The Sony Group Code of Conduct
FY2022 Hotline Cases Approach to Sustainability
Sony has multiple mechanisms to measure the effectiveness and
Issue(s) Raised Guidance Action(s) Taken maturity of Sony’s global ethics & compliance program. These At a Glance 2022
mechanisms include: conducting reviews of program implementation
The employee admitted the allegations during the Editorial Policy
investigation. The company required the on a global basis and using advanced analytics on data from various
The Sony Group Code of Conduct requires that employee to reimburse the company for the loss. sources such as hotline and ethical culture survey results, third party Business Overview
An employee helped the employee’s friend
Sony’s assets are to be used only for legitimate The employee reimbursed and is no longer
purchase a Sony product at a discounted price business purposes and we must not pursue employed by Sony. The company reminded its benchmark information and audit/review results. Sony also conducts Sony’s Sustainability
without authorization.
personal benefits using Sony’s assets. team members about the requirements of internal risk-based compliance reviews, audits and validations of controls.
control processes and policies, and strengthened Materiality
control and management to the operation.
Environment
Compliance Program Review
An investigation confirmed the concern. The
Sony will not tolerate any form of discrimination, Technology
A supervisor instructed a subordinate to change or harassment including, bullying or other supervisor was given a written warning. The Sony’s Compliance Monitoring function is focused on monitoring
the way they dress, referring to their clothing in a supervisor was also provided support to help them
behaviors that create a hostile work environment Sony’s ethics and compliance program. One of its key monitoring Employees
demeaning way. better express themselves to employees as part of
under the Sony Group Code of Conduct.
the remediation. activities is conducting periodic Compliance Program Reviews. The
Respect for Human Rights
Compliance Program Review is a collaborative, educational,
The investigation confirmed that some of the time Responsible Supply Chain
Sony Group Code of Conduct requires that automated, and real-time process designed to confirm the status of
Employees were conducting their own personal and attendance records were found to be
employees must always act in Sony's best
business during overtime hours. inadequate. The employees were subjected to program implementation at Sony Group companies in coordination Quality and Customer Service
interests.
disciplinary action.
with each of the compliance personnel. For each finding/gap
Community Engagement
identified through the review process, action plans are developed,
and the remediation progress is monitored. Ethics and Compliance
How Sony Promotes Speak-Up Resources No Retaliation
Sony intends to continue conducting periodic reviews to ensure
Sony continuously promotes both the need to raise concerns as well Sony strictly prohibits retaliation in any form. The Code and other continuous compliance program improvement. Overview
as the various resources available for employees to raise their internal rules explicitly provide that Sony does not tolerate any form Global Ethics & Compliance Network
concerns. The Code clearly states that every employee is responsible of retaliation against anyone for making a good faith report or for
The Sony Group Code of Conduct
Ethical Culture Survey
for speaking up to protect their colleagues and Sony. Code of cooperating in an investigation of a report. Sony keeps information
Sony’s Ethics and Compliance Program
Conduct training and ongoing messages also promote the provided to the Hotline confidential to the extent possible. Sony Sony periodically conducts an anonymous global survey containing
importance of reporting concerns and advise employees that their promotes its policy against retaliation in trainings and communications detailed perceptions of Sony’s ethical culture. The survey is designed Privacy and Personal Information
Management
concerns can be directed to either their manager, human resources to all Sony Group personnel and imposes appropriate consequences to measure ethical culture and compliance program effectiveness.
personnel, legal and compliance personnel, or the Sony Ethics & in the event anyone is found to have engaged in retaliatory behavior. Each Regional Compliance Officer works with Sony group companies Customer-first Business Operations
Compliance Hotline. Since Sony understands that employees may in their region to analyze survey results and to take appropriate actions
Corporate Governance
prefer to raise concerns with their manager in the first instance, to improve ethical culture and compliance program effectiveness.
training is also provided to all managers on how to create an The results of the FY2022 survey showed improvement in key areas Data Section
environment where employees feel comfortable speaking up when of focus based on the prior survey results.
GRI Standards Content Index
they observe unethical behavior. This training instructs managers on
how to handle concerns and prevent any appearance of retaliation.
Sustainability Report 2023145
Sony’s Purpose & Values
Privacy and Personal Sony routinely reviews and revises these policies and standards to processing activities.
The Sony Group Code of Conduct
address changes in the risk landscape, and the regulatory To maintain the stakeholders’ trust, Sony continuously looks for ways
Information Approach to Sustainability
environment. For example, Sony recently introduced a set of Ethical to improve practices, implement stronger controls, and provide more
Privacy Principles via its global privacy management framework robust security to protect personal information and other information At a Glance 2022
Management
which are designed to ensure trust with our customers, employees entrusted to its care.
Editorial Policy
and other stakeholders through the proper and ethical handling of
Business Overview
personal information.
Employee Training
Sony’s Sustainability
Sony believes it is important to protect the personal information of Sony Group Corporation’s Senior Vice President responsible for Legal,
Materiality
Sony’s customers, employees and other stakeholders and thus Compliance & Privacy monitors the global implementation of and Sony believes every employee has a role to play in safeguarding
ensure trust. compliance with those policies. Sony has a Compliance Monitoring privacy. To increase the education and awareness of our workforce, Environment
Sony has entered a new digital age, where the global privacy program in place to periodically assess the Group’s compliance with Sony requires all employees to receive information security and
Technology
landscape and advancements in information and communication Sony’s overarching privacy management framework and to proactively privacy training. In addition, Sony provides privacy specialist personnel
technology are changing at a faster pace than ever before. New global identify and manage potential privacy risks. with bi-annual training and awareness on new privacy requirements Employees
privacy laws continue to emerge, raising the bar for privacy compliance Under the direction of Sony Group Corporation’s Senior Vice and hot topics, as well as occasional training and awareness through
Respect for Human Rights
across the world. Rapidly evolving cloud-based solutions, social media President responsible for Legal, Compliance & Privacy, the Sony privacy working groups and group-wide projects.
Responsible Supply Chain
platforms, Big Data and transformative technologies such as AI, means Group Corporation Privacy Section, Privacy Officers and legal
Sony faces new privacy challenges and risks every day. departments responsible for privacy and personal information Quality and Customer Service
To be able to respond to these changes and to ensure Sony continues management at Sony Group companies work together and ensure
Community Engagement
to earn stakeholders’ trust, Sony maintains a robust global privacy effective implementation of policies and standards. Sony has
program. Sony’s approach to privacy continues to be grounded in a established a Privacy Leadership Team consisting of privacy leaders Ethics and Compliance
group-wide governance structure that enables the effective from across Sony. This team is responsible for advising on and
management of potential risks and incorporates privacy controls into supporting Sony Group Corporation’s Senior Vice President Overview
business processes, systems and products to safeguard the personal responsible for Legal, Compliance & Privacy, with setting privacy Global Ethics & Compliance Network
information of Sony customers, employees and other stakeholders. strategy and direction. Strong executive support for, and governance
The Sony Group Code of Conduct
of privacy are essential. Accordingly, executives at Sony headquarter
Sony’s Ethics and Compliance Program
and each Sony Group company take responsibility for playing an
Privacy Governance active role in managing privacy risks within their organizations and Privacy and Personal Information
Management
instilling a culture that respects privacy and builds trust.
Led by Sony Group Corporation’s Senior Vice President responsible Customer-first Business Operations
for Legal, Compliance & Privacy, Sony has a governance structure of
privacy and personal information management that covers the entire Safeguarding Privacy Corporate Governance
Sony Group. Sony’s privacy management is governed by a set of and Personal Information Data Section
global policies and standards, which are based on applicable laws,
GRI Standards Content Index
principles and best practices. These policies set forth Sony’s group-
wide commitment to privacy and define practices and procedures to Sony continues to enhance protection of personal information by
be followed by Sony executives and employees to ensure appropriate evaluating and addressing privacy risks through the use of a
handling and protection of the personal information that Sony global privacy management framework that promotes the
collects, stores and/or processes. integration of privacy principles and requirements into Sony’s data
Sustainability Report 2023146
Sony’s Purpose & Values
Customer-first
The Sony Group Code of Conduct
Approach to Sustainability
Business Operations
At a Glance 2022
Editorial Policy
Business Overview
Sony’s Sustainability
Sony Financial Group is in charge of Sony’s financial services business
Materiality
and pursues business operations from a customer-oriented
perspective throughout. As a financial holding company, Sony Environment
Financial Group Inc. has clarified this initiative as its customer-first
Technology
business operation policy and, as subsidiaries, Sony Life Insurance
Co., Ltd., Sony Assurance Inc. and Sony Bank Inc. each go further to Employees
establish business operation policies fine-tuned to their respective
Respect for Human Rights
activities. These policies are reviewed periodically to respond to
Responsible Supply Chain
factors such as changes in the business environment, and the
progress of their initiatives is reported regularly to the respective Quality and Customer Service
companies’ boards of directors or relevant senior managements and
Community Engagement
disclosed on their websites.
Ethics and Compliance
“Customer-first Business Operation Policy” and
Relevant Initiatives Overview
Sony Financial Group Inc. Global Ethics & Compliance Network
Sony Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (in Japanese)
The Sony Group Code of Conduct
Sony Assurance Inc. (in Japanese)
Sony’s Ethics and Compliance Program
Sony Bank Inc.
[Customer-first Business Operation Policy] Performance of Fiscal Privacy and Personal Information
2022 Initiatives (in Japanese) Management
Customer-first Business Operations
Corporate Governance
Data Section
GRI Standards Content Index
Sustainability Report 2023