Code of
Conduct
3202
rebmetpeSStatement and commitment of the leadership
This Code of Conduct, together with the accompanying
TeamViewer is a global software company that
policies, handbooks and procedures, outlines the
supports hundreds of millions of non-commercial
requirements we commit to in our daily business, so we
users and more than 625k customers from
can deliver the high standards expected from us
different industries with leading remote
externally and internally. By embracing it, we honor our
connectivity and frontline productivity
responsibilities and leave a lasting impact.
solutions.
Thank you for applying these principles as
We see this success as a great privilege as well as
foundation of TeamViewer’s continued
a great responsibility towards our customers,
success.
users, partners, suppliers, shareholders and
employees who have placed their trust in us.
With offices in more than 10 countries across
the world, we are the employer of choice
for more than 1,400 people globally. We foster
a safe and empowering work environment,
promoting equal opportunities, collaboration,
and innovation. All our words and actions shape
this diverse culture. In addition to our company
values, integrity, transparency, and compliance
with applicable laws and regulations should
always guide us to make good judgements
and ensure that we treat each other with
dignity and respect.
Oliver Steil (CEO) Michael Wilkens (CFO) Peter Turner (CCO) Mei Dent (CPTO)
TeamViewer - Code of Conduct 2Table of contents
01 • Statement and commitment Handling donations,
of the leadership 02 sponsorships & charitable
contributions 19
Complying with anti-money
02 • Code of Conduct 04
laundering laws 19
Respecting global trade
What it is 05
controls & sanctions 20
Why we have it 05
Our responsibilities 06
Respect for human rights 07 06 • How we fulfil our responsibility
towards security, confidentiality
Our beliefs 08
and the environment 21
Retain highest standards for
03 • How we interact IT and product security 22
with each others 09
Protecting data 23
Keeping confidential
Speak as one 10
information confidential 23
Respect each other 11
Avoiding insider trading and
Trust each other 11 sharing of insider information 24
Look out for each other 12 Keeping accurate records 25
Supporting an environmentally
friendly business 25
04 • How we interact with 3rd parties 13
Business partners, suppliers 07 • What are the consequences of
and customers 14 violations this Code of Conduct 26
Competitors 15
Consequences of violations 27
Free users 15
Governments and
other authorities 15
08 • Where to get more guidance
Speak Up! 28
05 • How we are countering
Where to get more guidance
corruption 16
and advice 29
Speak up! Whistleblowing System 30
Avoiding conflicts of interest 17
Treating gifts &
invitations responsibly 18 09 • Resources 31Chapter 2
Code of ConductWhat it is
The Code of Conduct (the Code) sets out the Why we have it
basic principles for business conduct at Team-
Viewer and guides us towards good judgment
At TeamViewer we are proud of our
and decisions in our professional routines.
entrepreneurial spirit, which makes this
company a great place to work with amazing
The content is aligned with our beliefs, which
colleagues in all our offices around the globe.
are incorporated into the Code. It therefore
We celebrate this spirit day by day and jointly
serves as the basis for our internal policies,
continue to write the TeamViewer success
handbooks, guidelines and procedures, all of
story. By respecting applicable laws and
which provide additional guidance.
regulations which are the foundation of our
Code, we protect this success and the
Please take it in the spirit in which it is intended
company’s value(s). Please use it as a
– to continue to build a respectful, positive
supporting resource but re- member that it
working environment for all of us around the
doesn’t cover every situation. It is important to
globe.
make good judgement, consider your actions,
ask yourself if it is consistent with the Code and
if you are not certain, talk with someone for
guidance.
Apply the principles of the Code
Do not deal with business situation on
your own if you are uncertain. Do not
unsettle or hinder colleagues from
reporting potential breaches
TeamViewer - Code of Conduct 5Our responsibilities
Irrespective of your job position or location, you should know your areas of responsibility and stay
up to date on what is necessary to comply with applicable laws and regulations. But remember, we
work as one global team, so make sure the words you use and the actions you take protect what we
already have built as well as support what we are trying to achieve.
As an employee As a member of the sales organization
Always act in accordance with the Code and Respect the applicable Anti-Trust and Unfair
comply with applicable laws and Competition laws.
regulations relevant to your location and
position. Play fair and stick to the Sales Policy and
Fair Play Rules. Do not steal customers or
Use the Code as a basis for good judgement opportunities from colleagues.
and ask for guidance if you are in doubt.
Violations will have consequences.
Make sure to follow the IT-Security and Data
Protection guidelines as an important
As a member of the procurement
addition to the Code of Conduct.
organization or in cases you act in a
procurement role
Speak Up!: In a bid to build a transparent
culture, employees are encouraged to
Never misuse your entrusted profession for your
speak up in case you come across a
personal benefit and always judge and act in the best
behaviour which is not within the principles
interest of the company.
laid out in the Code.
Apply transparency to your decision- making.
Don’t be afraid of retaliation. TeamViewer
does not tolerate retaliation against any-
one raising concerns.
As a member of the R&D organization
As a manager
Apply highest quality and confidentiality
standards to the handling of
Act as a role model. Ensure employees are
our source code.
aware of the Code and help them
understand it better.
Protect our product and the Intellectual
Property of TeamViewer with care.
Create an environment of trust, respect
and openness.
Take corrective or preventive action against
violations of the Code.
Support and/or enable investigations.
TeamViewer - Code of Conduct 6As the company
TeamViewer commits itself to comply with
applicable laws and regulations, and its
social and environmental responsibility
within the sphere of our influence.
Additionally, as a multinational company
with a very diverse employee base,
respect for human rights (especially with
regards to working-hours, wage and
compensation), environmental protection,
the ban on corruption and social
engagement are an integral part of our
daily business.
TeamViewer promotes innovation and
strives for economic, social and
environmental sustainability.
Seeking business excellence on a
sustainable basis is an important pillar of
our future corporate success.
Therefore, and in consistency with our
product offering, we support initiatives as
means to reduce the global carbon dioxide
footprint.
Respect for human rights
TeamViewer respects international standards are reflected in the provisions of our Code of
protecting human rights and is committed to Conduct.
their observance within its scope of influence.
TeamViewer business is legit business.
The material elements of the Countries, companies or individuals who
disrespect human rights and the principles of
the above, are excluded from business
European Convention on Human Rights and
relationships with us.
Fundamental Freedoms,
International Labor Organization (ILO)
Declaration on Fundamental Principles
and Rights at Work,
UN Global Compact,
UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights
TeamViewer - Code of Conduct 7Our beliefs
We are courageous
Embracing challenges, moving fast and passionately leading the way.
We are family
Sharing a common mindset, having integrity, valuing everyone’s contribution
and having fun together.
We make an impact
Pushing to be the best we can and creating value for our employees,
customers and society.
We are committed to quality
Being reliable partners, seeking excellence and delivering outstanding results.Chapter 3
How we interact
with each otherSpeak as one.
We all represent the company
We foster a supportive work environment Speaking as one, also means TeamViewer
where all employees can reach their fullest respects the rights of its employees under
potential. guidance of globally applicable standards such
as the UN Global Compact. This includes the
Our reputation as a company is one of our most freedom of association and the right to
valuable assets. It is therefore within our collective bargaining.
responsibility to protect our value(s) and
assets as well as those of the company. We
should always make sure to speak and act in
Spread the positive TeamViewer spirit
the best interests of TeamViewer, both within
and outside of our work environment.
Do not denigrate colleagues or the
company
Please make sure to get the appropriate
approvals before speaking to the press or
writing publicly (on e. g. social media) in the name
of or about the company.
Use good judgement and avoid the
appearance of improper and inappropriate
behavior. If you hear or feel a colleague has
fallen short of this commitment, we encourage
you to speak to them or let your manager or
Compliance know.
TeamViewer - Code of Conduct 10Respect each other. Fair & equal treatment,
no discrimination, no harassment
We are very proud of our diverse workforce has a different perception of offensiveness.
originating from a broad range in age, gender Please act and talk in accordance with such
identity, race, social and ethnic background, diversities.
marriage and family status, sexual orientation,
gender identity, national origin, political and In simple terms, treat others the way you like to
religious beliefs, physical, mental and sensitive be treated. We commit to, and promote equal
medical condition. opportunities and treatment of employees,
irrespective of their background. We like to live
Celebrate it! Despite the freedom of the open-door policy where employees can
expression and the acceptance of all kinds of, speak to anyone in the company. There will be
especially political and religious beliefs, times where your opinion will be heard but not
TeamViewer does not tolerate any kind of necessarily acted upon, please do not let this
extremist or in any other way widely offensive deter you from continuing to speak up We take this
behavior and propaganda. very seriously. If you believe any negative
behavior is taking place you we encourage you
It takes all of us working together to foster an to raise it with your manager, the HR team or
environment of openness, honesty, inclusion Compliance. Never fear retaliation, as this is
and collaboration, free of discrimination, not tolerated and will have consequences.
harassment and bullying. Please make sure
not to use offensive, discriminating or any
Treat everyone fairly and equally. Listen
other kind of improper language or action.
and be receptive to different points of
It is not tolerated and might have serious con-
view
sequences.
Do not engage in any direct or indirect
Never use any other basis than objectivity
behavior that is offensive, intimidating,
and performance for your business decisions,
malicious or insulting. Do not disrespect
internally and externally. Everybody
dignity and human rights of colleagues
Trust each other
We all have a shared understanding around our Being transparent about decisions builds
core mission and key goals. trust, not only internally but with our
customers and partners as well.
At TeamViewer, we foster an entrepreneurial
environment and encourage everyone to do
what is best to move the company forward. Trust each other and act transparently.
Foster trust through an open dialogue
As it is our belief, that teams that collaborate in an across all levels
open and honest manner, act constructively and
contribute strongest, we treat each other with Do not build closed areas of trust and
mutual respect and trust. knowledge sharing
TeamViewer - Code of Conduct 11Look out for each other.
Work safely, think dangerously
We compete in a people’s business. Our Please observe good security practices and re-
employees therefore are the most valuable port any kind of hazards. If you become aware
asset of the company and they need to be of any safety or security concerns or witness
protect- ed by placing high priority on health any suspicious activity, please report it to your
& safety measures. We act in accordance with local security team or raise it with HR or
the applicable statutory and international Compliance immediately.
standards regarding occupational health and
safety and provide safe working conditions.
Training will be provided consistently to ensure all Get familiar with your local security and
employees are educated in proper health & first aid measures and fire exits
safety methods. Our employees must feel that
they work in a safe, secure and violence-free Neither create non-physical dangers,
environment. This includes providing a nor any kind of hazardous surroundings
working environment committed to risk where colleagues could get hurt by e.g.
management that follows strict standards for slipping, tripping, falling
safety and security training, and access to
modern safety and security equipment and
techniques while at work. We ask you to get
familiar with your local security measures.
TeamViewer - Code of Conduct 12Chapter 4
How we interact
with 3rd partiesBusiness partners, suppliers, and customers.
Integrity integrated
As a serious business partner, TeamViewer acts with integrity in all situations and expects its
customers, suppliers, and other partners, to comply with the law in the same way. In particular, we
do expect everybody doing business on behalf of or with us to
refrain from any corrupt or fraudulent acts provide complete and accurate
information to facilitate due diligence
respect human rights efforts undertaken by TeamViewer,
where requested
have processes and controls in place to
comply with this Code notify TeamViewer on a timely basis if a
3rd Party becomes aware of any
implement necessary policies, procedures alleged corrupt or fraudulent acts,
and training to comply with this Code Human rights or environmental violations
or risks, an actual or potential conflict
act in compliance with the applicable laws of interest or a sensitive situation
and international standards related to that may impact its work for or with
data protection, cyber security, environ- TeamViewer.
mental protection and international
business transactions in general such as to commit to the Supplier and
ex- ports / import and embargo provisions Business Partner Code of Conduct
TeamViewer complies with the principles of If TeamViewer, either through its own
non-discrimination regarding supplier selection employees or as a result of external
and treatment. information, discovers violations of legal
obligations, regulations, or this Code by its
TeamViewer uses all reasonable efforts to
partners or suppliers, TeamViewer will request
ensure compliance of its suppliers with the
the violating party to take remedial action. In
principles of this Code and the Supply Chain Act.
certain circumstances, TeamViewer may be
As stipulated in the German Act on Corporate Due
forced to suspend or terminate the
Diligence Obligations in Supply Chains
relationship.
(Lieferkettensorgfaltspflichtengesetz, LkSG),
TeamViewer conducts risk-based due
diligence on 3rd Parties (e.g. suppliers,
business partners, customers) as part of
assessing its relationship with 3rd Parties.
TeamViewer - Code of Conduct 14Competitors. Governments and
Play fair, win big other authorities
Business and competition should always be for the TeamViewer maintains legally irreproachable
benefit of the customer. relations with governmental bodies, as we act
transparently, honest, and in compliance with
TeamViewer commits to competing vigorously the applicable law.
but fairly, by following all applicable fair
competition or antitrust laws. We expect our We recommend our employees to contact the
competitors to also act accordingly. Collusion, Senior Management, Legal or Compliance,
price coordinations, and agreements about a when receiving any kind of governmental
market allocation in general, are not inquiry before taking further action.
permitted. Additionally, we obtain information
about our competitors only by lawful means Although lobbying can be a positive force in
and use that information responsibly. democracy, it may also negatively affect public
Employees who are in doubt whether an interest. TeamViewer does not engage in any
action may violate such laws should disclose it actions resulting in undue influence or unfair
to their Senior Management or Compliance. competition. This includes political donations
Additional information, explanations and or any other forms of political expenses.
specific examples are provided in the Antitrust
and Fair Competition Policy.
Free users
One of the key pillars of TeamViewer’s success
is our large free user base which we are very
proud of.
We respect free users the same way as our
paying subscribers and vice versa expect our
other partners to respect our business model
with this solid foundation of free- subscribers
for private use.
TeamViewer - Code of Conduct 15Chapter 4
How we are
countering corruptionAvoiding conflicts of interest.
Think we first, not me
In your daily business, you may come across Apply transparency in your decision-making
situations, in which a decision in the best interest
of the company competes with your personal Do not involve in activities and financial
interest. In such cases, you must differentiate investments which could conflict with
between your private interests and the your responsibilities to the company
interests of the company and avoid all
conflicts of interest that may influence the
business of TeamViewer.
In cases where you cannot solve the conflict
yourself or are in doubt which decision is best,
disclose the conflict to your manager or
Compliance before you take any action, as it
could be detrimental to all of us. Being
transparent about the decision-making
process is key.
TeamViewer - Code of Conduct 17Treating gifts & invitations responsibly.
No tricks or treats
TeamViewer’s success is based on its entrepreneurial spirit, the innovativeness of its products
and integrity. Providing reasonable hospitality or gifts sometimes can be relevant for developing
or deepening business relations and might even have a cultural background. However, such favors
may only be given or received if they
Serve a legitimate business purpose Do not unreasonably influence the
recipient’s decision-making
Do not serve to obtain improper advantage
Are being limited to a reasonable, i. e
Do not raise a suspicion of being a bribe for customary extent
an independent third party
Are not happening during the conclusion
Do not obligate or appear to obligate the or negotiation of contracts or other
person who receives it important business decision making process-
es
Are not offered or given in expectation of
special or favored treatment
In accordance with the applicable international Get additional guidance to good decision-
laws offering, promising or accepting gifts, or making countering corruption in our
other benefits in an unreasonable extent is internal policies
prohibited for everybody doing business with
or on behalf of TeamViewer. Do not accept or offer gifts or other
benefits that exceed customary amounts
Under no circumstances should any other basis
than economic criteria (such as price, quality,
service) be decisive for a business decision. All
kinds of corrupt behavior (e. g. bribery, fraud) is
strictly banned from our business practices. As
TeamViewer we always act in accordance with
applicable Anti-Bribery & Corruption laws and
regulations.
If you are ever offered a bribe, or come across
suspicious circumstances, be transparent
about it and immediately disclose it to your Senior
Management, Legal or Compliance.
Additional information, explanations and
specific examples including a clear multi- step
approval process based on value limitations,
are provided in the Anti-Bribery and
Corruption Policy.
TeamViewer - Code of Conduct 18Handling donations, sponsorships & charitable
contributions. Sharing our success
TeamViewer is conscious of its responsibility Contact your Senior Management and
and committed to supporting charitable the CSR team before making any social
causes financially and non-financially. contribution
Donations, sponsorships or general charitable Do not act in the name of TeamViewer by
contributions do reflect our social commitment and contributing without the right approval
are handled appropriately, transparently and
neutral regarding religion or politics with no
improper business advantage attached.
Such activities or payments should always be
in accordance with applicable laws and sup-
port our Corporate Social Responsibility goals.
Complying with anti-money laundering laws.
We don’t handle dirty laundry
TeamViewer cooperates only with business Keep cash out of the business. Keep good
partners, whose activities are in accordance records of all transactions
with the applicable legal requirements and
whose financial resources are of legitimate Do not accept or use money from an un-
origin. disclosed origin
Receiving or giving money or other assets with
undisclosed origin, or any other kind of
suspicious facts which indicate money laundering,
is prohibited and must be disclosed to the
Senior Management or Compliance.
Additional information, explanations and
specific examples are provided in the Anti-
Money Laundering Policy.
TeamViewer - Code of Conduct 19Respecting global trade controls & sanctions
TeamViewer is a leading global connectivity Know current high-risk countries and
platform. Having international operations and refrain from business with such. Contact
business relations, makes it essential for us to Compliance in case of questionable re-
comply with internationally applicable trade quests
controls and sanctions. Therefore,
TeamViewer does not engage in any Do not engage business with sanctioned
transactions with high-risk countries, entities region or individuals.
or individuals re- siding in such. Business
activities with questionable origin are to be
checked against sanction lists. TeamViewer
has implemented strict internal procedures.
IP Geo-blocking, sanction list screening and
contractual safeguards are the toolset
applicable to comply with common laws.
TeamViewer - Code of Conduct 20Chapter 6
How we fulfill our
responsibilities towards
security, confidentiality,
and environmentRetain highest standards for IT and product security
As a global leading connectivity platform, we To further protect the security of our networks,
take data, IT and product security very seriously. it is key that each employee makes proper use
As general rules on cybersecurity apply to of workplace information technology. The ap-
TeamViewer in various jurisdictions, state-of- propriate security practices that protect us
the-art technical and organizational measures against internal and external threats are de-
are implemented to protect the security of fined in the IT Security Policies.
personal data.
Please make sure you read the IT Security
These measures include, physical security Policies participate in mandatory trainings and
against unauthorized access and follow the principles to keep the highest
manipulation, password assignment, standards for IT security. For further inquiries,
authorization concepts, logging of subsequent please contact the IT Security team.
changes of data, reasonable encryption as well
as protection against accidental loss,
destruction or dam- age. Always wear your badge visibly when in
the office. Apply the principles outlined
In addition, we have implemented an ap- in the IT security policies
propriate risk management system that also
covers the detection and control of IT- Do not risk a data breach by carelessly
related risks. handling IT security standards policies
TeamViewer - Code of Conduct 22Protecting data. Privacy is key
explaining roles and responsibilities and how the
At TeamViewer we rely on data, as it is not only an
relevant topics of GDPR are being implemented at
essential part of our products, but it also
TeamViewer. Finally, it documents our internal
allows us to keep in touch with customers, to
processes to fulfil the GDPR requirements.
understand their needs and to deliver the best
services.
Please make sure you read the handbook and
take your mandatory trainings on data
Hence, protecting this data is taken very
protection. For further inquiries, please don’t
seriously at TeamViewer and we thoroughly
hesitate and contact your data privacy team.
implemented the requirements of GDPR. We
process personal data, including employee
data, confidentially and responsibly, respect
everyone’s privacy and ensure that personal
Respect the principles of the GDPR and
data is effectively protected and used only for
act in accordance with the privacy hand-
legitimate purposes.
book
The GDPR Privacy Handbook, as our standard
Do not let loose on protecting yours and
reference, provides an overview and guidance
your peer’s data
on data protection requirements by
Keeping confidential information and intellectual
property confidential
Within your area of responsibility, you might As general rule, company information that is not
come across confidential information (e.g. accessible to the public, should not be shared,
confidential personal data, product or other posted, or talked about outside the company.
business information, intellectual property). If you are not sure if something is confidential,
Confidential information is intended for a please ask your senior management or
defined, limited number of recipients only. contact Compliance.
We protect such confidential information and
intellectual property, whether it belongs to
TeamViewer or another company, from
unauthorized disclosure and use. Internal Mark confidential information
dissemination or external release is accordingly, limit the number of
prohibited. recipients and re- strict access clearly.
Respect copyrights and licensing
Especially when using social media, please agreements for any graphics,
make sure to be aware of your responsibility documents, media and especially
to the company’s reputation and do not share software
sensitive or confidential company information,
by also respecting the privacy of your col- leagues Do not share confidential information if
and business partners. not explicitly requested to.
TeamViewer - Code of Conduct 23Avoiding insider trading and sharing
of insider information
As a publicly listed company TeamViewer is Please read the Group Securities Dealing Code
subject to capital markets regulations. In order to carefully for additional guidance, definition of
ensure compliance with these regulations we the above mentioned and in order to
must not understand the obligations and restrictions
this means for you as a TeamViewer
employee. Carefully consider any additional
trade within the Closed Periods around instructions you may be given when working
the end of financial periods leading up to
on particularly sensitive projects. Reach out to
the publications of results or statements
your manager, legal or compliance in case of
questions.
provide recommendations based or
potentially based on confidential,
restricted or inside information
Check the Group Securities Dealing Code
before trading TeamViewer securities
disclose confidential, restricted or
inside information to any non-insider
Do not share insider information. Do not
within or outside TeamViewer,
deal TeamViewer securities when you are
including family members.
restricted, appear on the Insider List, or
within a Closed Period
Please make sure you read the handbook and
take your mandatory trainings on data
protection. For further inquiries, please don’t
hesitate and contact your data privacy team.
TeamViewer - Code of Conduct 24Keeping accurate records
customers and the public with interest in the
Our accounting and financial records must
company. As a principle, we commit to follow all
clearly and accurately reflect transactions
applicable laws, regulations and standards for
with enough detail to ensure correct decision-
financial book building and re- porting.
making. They must comply with all applicable
laws, regulations, international financial
reporting standards and internal accounting
Apply integrity and accuracy in financial
and record-keeping procedures and policies.
book building and reporting
Maintaining the integrity of our financial
Do not put our reputation as a trusted
reporting supports our decision-making and
partner at risk with insufficient or
strengthens our reputation with all
inaccurate reporting
stakeholders, such as investors, employees,
Supporting an environmentally friendly business
TeamViewer commits itself to its social and
environmental responsibility within the sphere
of its influence and in accordance with
applicable laws, in particular the human rights
and environmental due diligence obligations
arising from the LkSG.
Seeking business excellence on a sustain-
able basis is an important pillar of our future
corporate success. Therefore, and in
consistency with our product offering, we
sup- port remote work and home-office
initiatives as means to reduce the global
carbon dioxide footprint. We aim to be a
frontrunner in this trend.
TeamViewer - Code of Conduct 25Chapter 7
What are the consequences
of violations of this CodeConsequences and violations
Consequences to the Company may be (e.g.):
So this is the TeamViewer Code of Conduct.
Damage for our reputation, brand, and
This is how we do business.
market value
If anything is unclear, Speak Up! and make use
Significant fines and damages
of the communication channels provided
violations of the Code jeopardize the well-
Disgorgement of profit
being of our unique corporate culture and
ultimately the commercial success of
Exclusion from third party selection
TeamViewer. If you violate the Code, consciously
processes and loss of business
or unconsciously, be aware that this may
attract consequences for yourself, other
To avoid such consequences, please make
individuals involved, and the company.
sure you understand and always act upon
the principles set forth in this Code of
Depending on the Seriousness of the Violation
Conduct, internally and externally in
of the Code, consequences to Employees may
our professional environment.
be (e. g.):
Disciplinary action (formal warning,
transfer of position, termination)
Fines and damage claims
Imprisonment
TeamViewer - Code of Conduct 27Chapter 8
Where to get more guidance
Speak Up!Where to get more guidance and advice
When confronted with actions, behaviors, Depending on the level of confidentiality re-
documents, conversations, etc. that you don’t quired in a specific situation, there are multiple
agree with, or that feel suspicious or in any way channels of communication provided to ad-
disregard this Code of Conduct, do not dress such topics.
hesitate but Speak Up!
If you feel unable to talk directly to the person(s)
A problem shared is a problem halved. Issues involved, or need to get an unbiased opinion,
that interfere with the way we want to work make a sound judgement, choose your favorite
with each other, and the outside world need to (of the below) and Speak Up!
be addressed, to avoid damage to individuals
or the company.
Your management Trust Council
You can contact a person in your immediate The Trust Council was introduced as a person
work environment, such as your direct line of contact for topics you specifically may not
manager or the respective SLT member. Both want to disclose with your management, but
will take care of your request and if necessary, still want to speak to somebody, independent,
involve further parties or initiate further steps. objective and trustworthy.
Compliance office
Urgent topics, that seem to have a high
negative impact on individuals and / or the
company should always be disclosed to the
Compliance organization via
compliance@teamviewer.com
or directly see the Compliance and Risk Manag- er
or any other member of our Compliance
department who will handle your case with
care.
Please find location, telephone number, and
direct e-mail on TeamBase.
TeamViewer - Code of Conduct 29Speak up! Whistleblowing & reporting channel
If you know or suspect that Company policies or Speak Up! is not meant for general feedback.
guidelines, laws or regulations are being violated Instead, please contact your manager or reach
at TeamViewer, please use our secure out to the Compliance Office for feedback.
whistleblowing & reporting channel “Speak
Up!” and inform us about it, anonymously if you Please only provide information within Speak
wish. Your identity and all information you provide Up! that you believe to be true.
are treated confidentially, subject to the
provisions of the law. Subject to reports are Speak Up! may not be misused for reporting
violations of (not exhaustively listed) knowingly false or mis- leading information or
obviously unfounded accusations and
denunciations (in the sense of criminal law
Company polices and guidelines, breaches provisions such as slander or libel). A detailed
of all kinds of laws and regulations description of the TeamViewers whistleblowing
& reporting channel, including guidance on how to
Anti-Bribery & Corruption, bribery, conflict use it is available on the Whistleblowing Policy at
of interests TeamBase.
Property and asset crimes (theft, fraud
undue enrichment offences etc.) Compliance-relevant, but very specific topics
such as IT Security [it-security@teamviewer.
Anti-competitive practices, insider trading com] or Data Protection [dataprotection@
teamviewer.com] should be addressed with
Discrimination & harassment, human the responsible teams. Please find details in
rights and the respective policies and handbooks or on
the applicable TeamBase page.
Books and records, accounting violations.
At TeamViewer, you will always find an open
door if you need advice, have concerns or want to
Breaches of laws and regulations particularly discuss suggestions for improvement
include breaches within the scope of section 2, regarding Compliance.
3 Whistleblowing Act (Hinweisgeberschutzge-
setz, HinSchG), as amended from time to time
(mainly criminal acts and breaches of certain
laws) and violations or risks of a violation of the
human rights and environmental prohibitions
listed in section 2 Supply Chain Act (LkSG).
Employees also have the opportunity to pose
questions to the contact persons listed in the
Code of Conduct or on the Compliance Team-
Base page (by phone, email, chat or in person)
if they prefer such channels or are unsure
whether an undesirable development has
taken place.
TeamViewer - Code of Conduct 3009_Resources
For more information, visit or contact
TeamBase compliance@teamviewer.com
Data Protection
IT Security Scan the QR Code
to contact us
Version 1.2 as of September 2023
TeamViewer - Code of Conduct 31About TeamViewer
As a leading global technology company, TeamViewer offers a secure remote connectivity
platform to access, control, manage, monitor, and support any device — across platforms
— from anywhere. With more than 600,000 customers, TeamViewer is free for private,
non-commercial use and has been installed on more than 2.5 billion devices. TeamViewer
continuously innovates in the fields of Remote Connectivity, Augmented Reality, Internet
of Things, and Digital Customer Engagement, enabling companies from all industries to
digitally transform their business-critical processes through seamless connectivity.
Founded in 2005, and headquartered in Göppingen, Germany, TeamViewer is a publicly held
company with approximately 1,500 global employees. TeamViewer SE (TMV) is listed at
Frankfurt Stock Exchange and belongs to the MDAX.
TeamViewer Group
Bahnhofsplatz 2 73033 Göppingen Germany
+49 (0) 7161 60692 50
TeamViewer US Inc.
5741 Rio Vista Dr Clearwater, FL 33760 USA
+1 800 638 0253 (Toll-Free)
Stay Connected
www.teamviewer.com
2023 TeamViewer Germany GmbH and TeamViewer US. All rights reserved.