CODE OF
CODE OF
CONDUCTCode of Conduct
Birgit Bohle
For Deutsche Telekom, the Code of Conduct is
both an internal claim and at the same time a Birgit Bohle Board Member for Human Resources
and Legal Affairs, Labor Director
promise to the outside world. It also ensures that
Deutsche Telekom remains a transparent and Dr. Marie von der Groeben Tribe Lead Group Compliance
traceable enterprise for everybody. Chief Compliance Officer
Dr. Claudia Junker Head of Law & Integrity,
The Code of Conduct applies globally at Deutsche Senior Managing Director
Telekom to all board members, managing directors,
executives and employees. It also applies, for For all the reasons outlined above, Deutsche Telekom
example, to temporary workers, i.e. persons who has determined the content of its Code of Conduct as
are functionally equivalent to employees. follows:
2
It provides an overview of Deutsche Telekom’s values
and the requirements for conduct to its employees.
Whenever necessary, the basic principles of the Code
of Conduct will be specified in greater detail in internal
policies and regulations. Deutsche Telekom’s
understanding of values also includes mutual respect as
well as recognition and appreciation in our day-to-day
interactions with each other. When implementing the
Code of Conduct, each business unit of Deutsche
Telekom respects both its respective national laws
and, based on these, the individual culture of the
country in which it operates.
Yet it would not be sufficient to consider the Code of
Conduct simply as a general guideline. It must rather
be filled with life and actively promoted by role models.
First and foremost, Deutsche Telekom’s executives are
role models, not only by acting lawfully and with
integrity. They must also ensure that their employees
are aware of and understand the Code of Conduct
and what behavior is required.
However, the content and the values of the Code of
Conduct should not only be lived and applied
internally. For this reason, Deutsche Telekom expects
its suppliers and consultants to comply with the
requirements specified in the Code of Conduct and
endeavors to ensure that they also commit themselves
to the respective contractual
What makes a company successful? A good product
alone does
obligations.
not determine success or failure, nor is it
the only decisive factor for a purchase decision. A
bad reputation or the lack of a reputation
jeopardizes a company’s success. Therefore, it takes
more to achieve business success. In other words,
board members, managing directors, executives and
employees working for Deutsche Telekom need to
act lawfully.
This creates, trust, credibility, reliability, and
reputation.
Furthermore, it takes everyone’s integrity and
personal responsibility for his or her own actions.
All these qualities together constitute the company’s
value-based compliance culture. This compliance
culture is a prerequisite for the business success of
Deutsche Telekom Group (Deutsche Telekom).
Business success does not stand above the law nor
above morals and integrity. How Deutsche Telekom
achieves business success is just as important as the
very success itself.
The Code of Conduct provides the framework for
orientation. It combines two essential aspects: the
expectation of all employees complying with the
law and the specific requirements for acting with
integrity.Code of Conduct
+ 01
Corporate
governance
Deutsche Telekom complies with all legal
regulations governing the management and the
monitoring of the company and respects and
maintains the internationally recognized standards
of good and responsible corporate governance.
Elmir Rasavac 32.1 Active corruption
In order to preserve the trust of its customers, Code of Conduct
business partners, shareholders and of the general
public, Deutsche Telekom firmly rejects any and all
forms of corrupt behavior and avoids even the mere
appearance of such behavior. Specifically, this means
that Deutsche Telekom employees may not offer,
promise or grant benefits to any public officials in
their local country or abroad, nor to any
decisionmakers operating in the private sector in their
local country or abroad, in order to achieve
preferential treatment or a favorable decision for
Deutsche Telekom. Deutsche Telekom employees
must bear this in mind when dealing with gifts or
invitations to business meals and events.
2.2 Passive corruption
Deutsche Telekom employees may not allow
themselves to be promised or offered benefits and
shall not accept any benefits if this creates, or could
create, the impression with the parties bestowing the
benefits that they can thus influence the employees’
business decisions. Further, Deutsche Telekom
+ 02
employees must never request any benefits for
themselves or third parties.
Business
2.3 Public service contracts
The public sector is an important market for
Deutsche Telekom. Deutsche Telekom’s employees
relationships
adhere to the rules prohibiting undue influence in
public-sector tenders and ensuring fair competition.
Trust and fairness in all business
2.4 Trade controls
decisions are the indispensible
Deutsche Telekom has international business relations.
elements of Deutsche Telekom
It is thus actively involved in the global trade in goods
and services, and is a supporter of free trade. Within this dealing with its business partners.
context, Deutsche Telekom complies with the The private interests or personal
applicable trade regulations regarding import/export
gain of employees do not have any
controls and embargoes.
influence on business decisions.
2.5 Procurement
Deutsche Telekom Procurement and authorized
parties are responsible for procuring goods and
services in a professional manner and at optimal
conditions for the benefit of Deutsche Telekom.
Procurement acts in compliance with the applicable
laws of the countries in which Deutsche Telekom
operates. As bypassing Procurement can lead to
disadvantages for Deutsche Telekom, Procurement
has been given responsibility for all purchasing
activities.
Katrin Müller 4Code of Conduct
2.6 Suppliers
Deutsche Telekom maintains business relations with its
suppliers that are based on trust and fairness. In turn,
Deutsche Telekom expects its suppliers to treat it with
the same respect and integrity it shows them. Suppliers
are frequently also customers. Deutsche Telekom
refrains from taking unfair advantage of such
situations and strictly separates any related
purchasing and sales activities. Any reciprocal
arrangements must be approved accordingly by the
responsible procurement department.
2.7 Competition
Deutsche Telekom and its employees commit
themselves to fair competition in all business
relationships. They ensure that no agreements are
concluded with competitors, customers or suppliers
which restrict competition on prices or by division of
product or geographic markets. This applies, in
particular, to tenders. Business decisions are made
independently and without the exchange of sensitive
information with competitors. Deutsche Telekom
neither disseminates incorrect information on
products or services of competitors, nor seeks to gain
a competitive advantage in any other unfair or abusive
manner.
2.8 Transparent financial reporting
Deutsche Telekom’s financial reporting is carried out in
compliance with local and international financial
reporting regulations and gives a true and fair view of
its assets, liabilities and results of its operations and
financial position.
Michelle Fuchs 5Code of Conduct
2.9 Donations
As a responsible member of society, Deutsche Telekom
assumes social responsibility in all countries it
operates. Deutsche Telekom acts as a supporter and
sponsor of education, science, culture, activities
relating to social responsibility, sports and
environment protection on a large scale, all on the
basis of the specific local laws, its internal policies
and regulations and within the limits of financial
possibilities. This support is being shaped by
partnerships, cash and noncash donations, and
services.
Deutsche Telekom makes no donations in order to
obtain any commercial advantage. Donations to
individuals or private accounts as well as individuals or
organizations that could potentially damage either the
Deutsche Telekom’s interests or reputation will not be
granted.
2.10 Political contributions
Deutsche Telekom does not donate any money to
political parties or elected officials, and does not grant
them any noncash benefits beyond what is legally
permissible.
2.11 Money-laundering
Deutsche Telekom takes all necessary measures to
prevent money-laundering activities within its sphere
of influence.
2.12 Sponsoring
Sponsoring is one of Deutsche Telekom’s corporate
communications instruments. Sponsoring activities
are focused on the platforms of sports (mainly soccer),
music and activities relating to social responsibility. All
sponsoring activities must conform to the respective
legal system in each country and the internal sponsoring
policy. All sponsoring activities are handled transparent-
ly, and involve appropriate and verifiable
communications and marketing services on the part of
the sponsoring partners/organizers.
63.1 Secondary employment
Secondary employment must not conflict with the
interests of Deutsche Telekom; that applies in
particular to secondary employment with
competitors.
3.2 Equity participations
Equity participations by Deutsche Telekom employees in
competitors or business partners of Deutsche Telekom
that grant the investor influence over the business are
not in the interests of Deutsche Telekom.
+ 03
Avoiding
other conflicts
of interest
Deutsche Telekom expects that the personal interests
of its Board of Management members, managing
directors, executives and employees will not interfere
or conflict with its interests.
Vanessa Machura 7Code of Conduct
+ 04
Private use
of company
property
The private use of company property is permissible
only where provided for by individual contract,
collective agreement or company regulations, or
where such use is accepted company practice.
Gabriela Dodevska 8Code of Conduct
5.1 Data security
Data security is of paramount concern to Deutsche
Telekom. It is a decisive factor of its success and public
image. That is why Deutsche Telekom uses all the
appropriate and reasonable technical and
organizational means at its disposal to protect
company data and the data of its customers, business
partners, shareholders and employees against
unauthorized access, unauthorized or improper use,
loss and premature destruction. It does so within the
respective legal framework and national laws as well as
in compliance with its own internal policies and
regulations.
5.2 Data privacy
Deutsche Telekom is aware that the personal data its
customers, business partners, shareholders and
employees entrust to it is highly sensitive, and protects
that data by handling it in a careful and responsible
manner. Therefore Deutsche Telekom takes a variety of
technical and organizational measures to ensure the
confidentiality of personal data in these efforts. Every
individual is responsible within the scope of his/her
duties for ensuring a high level of data privacy at
Deutsche Telekom. Deutsche Telekom’s employees
adhere strictly to the data privacy regulations and, in
particular, respect and observe the comprehensive
rights of those whose data they collect, process and
+ 05 use.
5.3 General duty of confidentiality
Handling
In addition to the technical and organizational
measures of data privacy, each Deutsche Telekom
employee is obliged to protect the company’s business
information
interests. For this reason, any information leaving the
company or any information related to Deutsche
Telekom must be communicated to authorized
recipients only, no matter if they are employees of
Deutsche Telekom or third parties. Similarly,
Deutsche Telekom respects the confidentiality of
information and safeguards business documents
against unauthorized access.
5.4 Inside information
To ensure market integrity and enhance public
confidence in the financial markets, Deutsche
Telekom’s employees adhere to the rules prohibiting
the use of inside information, in particular the rules on
confidentiality, the prohibition on making
recommendations to or inducing others and the
prohibition of insider dealings.
Cathya Gonzalez Valencia
9Code of Conduct
+ 06
Compliance
with rules
of behavior
Deutsche Telekom expects its Board of Management
members, managing directors, executives and
employees to behave in line with the Code of
Conduct.
Any breaches of these rules, legal obligations, or of in-
ternal policies and regulations may have serious
consequences not only for the individuals committing
them, but also for Deutsche Telekom. Therefore,
deliberate misconduct will not be tolerated.
Without any exception, Deutsche Telekom will severely
sanction any such misconduct or violation against legal
provisions. In doing so Deutsche Telekom will take no
account of the employee’s rank or position within the
company.
Deutsche Telekom creates a climate and atmosphere
free of any fear of negative consequences to encourage
employees to communicate violations and misconduct,
if necessary.
Dorota Buczynski 10Code of Conduct
Levent Dogan
The direct superiors are the first port of call for any with their superiors. Thus, problems can often be
questions regarding the application of the Code of resolved exhaustively. Should that path be ruled out,
Conduct in employees’ everyday work. In addition, reports of misconduct can be made by regular post,
the AskMe advice portal has been set up to help telephone or via email. It is also possible to file a
resolve uncertain- ties as far as compliance relevant report in TellMe anonymously. The anonymous way
behavior is concerned. however should only be used in exceptional cases if
Serious misconduct must be announced for prevention you fear serious negative consequences for you
purposes and for appropriate sanctions. For this reason personally, e.g., under labor law or consequences of a
the TellMe whistleblower portal has been established. social nature.
AskMe portal Any information provided will be treated as strictly
Compliance-relevant questions regarding the Code of confidential and will be checked for plausibility by
Conduct and internal policies can be addressed to the specifically trained persons who are obligated to
AskMe advice portal. confidentiality.
Contact information for AskMe
Will be found for employees on the intranet of Deutsche Contact information for TellMe
Telekom. Deutsche Telekom AG
Friedrich-Ebert-Allee 140, 53113 Bonn, Germany
TellMe whistleblower portal Phone: +8000 38 24 835
Information concerning possible violations of legal E-Mail: Tell-me@telekom.de
obligations or internal policies and regulations can Internet: https://www.telekom.com/en/company/
be reported through the TellMe whistleblower portal. compliance/whistleblowerportal
Nobody making a report to the portal will suffer any
disadvantages, provided they themselves acted in
accordance with the applicable legal obligations.
These reports should be done to the best of
knowledge and belief. Anyone, however, who is
carelessly or knowingly making false or unfounded
accusations or allegations, must bear the full
consequences. As a matter of principle, Deutsche
Telekom encourages its employees to speak directly
11Code of Conduct
further
You can find further information on the Code of Conduct Deutsche Telekom’s Group policies, e.g., the
here: Group Policy on Accepting and Granting Benefits, the
http://www.telekom.com/en/company/compliance/ Sponsoring Policy and the Global Procurement Policy
code-of-conduct
and
Additional useful information can be found below: Regulations that are important to employment
relationships, e.g., works agreements and collective
Deutsche Telekom’s strategy, which describes the agreements will be found for employees on the intra-
company’s goals. net of Deutsche Telekom.
http://www.telekom.com/en/company/strategy
The German Corporate Governance Code, which was
Deutsche Telekom Guiding Principles, which formulated by a government commission, constitutes
provide guidance for putting the company’s Deutsche Telekom’s benchmark for good and
strategy into practice. responsible corporate governance.
http://www.telekom.com/company-values http://www.dcgk.de/en/
The Code of Human Rights & Social Principles,
under which Deutsche Telekom commits, among
other things, to respect and promote human
rights (including the ILO’s core labor standards).
Deutsche Telekom’s compliance with the Code
of Human Rights & Social Principles is surveyed
once a year at all Group companies worldwide as
part of the Social Performance Report
Imprint
and
Deutsche Telekom AG
The Group Policy on Employee Relations, which elab- Group Compliance
orates the relationship between Deutsche Telekom Friedrich-Ebert-Allee 140
companies and their workforce. 53113 Bonn
https://www.telekom.com/en/corporate-
responsibility/social-commitment/responsible- All people shown are employees of Group
employer Deutsche Telekom.
As of March, 2024 12