Business Conduct Guide
Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct | Uber confidential. Do not distribute.
Table of Contents
1. Let’s Do It Right 03 5. Protect Uber’s Information & Assets 21
Making the Right Decision 04 Rider & Driver Partner Information 22
Speak Up 05 Employee Personal Information 23
Be Yourself & Treat Each Other Well 06 Company Equipment 24
Giving Back 07
6. Contracting, Financial Reporting & 25
2. Telling Our Story 08 Recordkeeping
Communicating with the Media 09 Contracts & Trade Compliance 26
Social Media 10 Accurate Financial & Public Disclosures 27
Corporate Recordkeeping 28
3. Conflicts of Interest & Government Relations 11 Code of Ethics for Directors 29
Be Loyal 12
Receiving Gifts & Business Entertainment 13
7. Help Links 30
Giving Gifts & Entertainment 14
Special Rules for Dealings with Governments 15
Political Activities & Contributions 16
4. Competing Fairly 17
Competitors & Fair Trade Practices 18
Accurate Marketing 19
Competitive Intelligence 20Business Code of Conduct
Let’s do it right
Let’s transform the way people around
the world move, live, and work.
Each of us has a responsibility to treat each other and grow our business with
integrity. The Business Conduct Guide helps us achieve our goals by providing
resources to answer legal and ethical questions.
If you have questions as you use the Guide, please reach out to the Global
Compliance Team at compliance@uber.com. We're here to help.
03 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct | Let’s do it right
Making the right decision
Use this framework to help make the right decision.
Purpose Process Perception
Why am I doing this? Did I follow the right steps? How does this look to riders, drivers,
regulators, employees, media?
Is it legal? Is it the right thing to do? Did I consult the right experts?
How would this look in three to four years
in the future?
04 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct | Let’s do it right
Speak up You are responsible for knowing and following the policies in this Business Conduct
Guide. It's important to raise questions if you are not sure what to do. We’re better
Everyone should feel
as a company when you exercise your power to prevent mistakes or wrongdoing by
asking questions and offering solutions.
comfortable speaking up,
Reach out to your manager first. Managers have a responsibility to create an open
particularly with concerns
and supportive environment where their team feels comfortable raising concerns
about how we conduct and questions. If you cannot reach your manager, or if you are not comfortable
raising the issue with your manager, reach out to the A-Team, People Team, Global
our business.
Compliance, Internal Audit, or the Uber Integrity Helpline. We do not tolerate
retaliation against employees who raise genuine concerns in good faith.
05 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct | Let’s do it right
Be yourself & treat each other well
We are committed to fostering an environment where
ALL people are welcome and supported.
We are more productive, more creative and — is essential to our success. We are slave labor or human trafficking and
happier when each of us can be our authentic committed to the principles of equal denounces any degrading treatment of
self. Uber is committed to providing this kind employment opportunity, inclusion and individuals or unsafe working conditions.
of freedom by encouraging all employees to respect. We do not tolerate discrimination in
We are committed to the safety and
adopt a hyper-tolerance where all people, any form against anyone.
security of our employees and property.
from all walks of life, are welcome and
Every Uber employee has a right to a work Threats, intimidation and violence in our
fiercely supported.
environment free from harassment. workplace will not be tolerated. You may
Our Employee Handbook for the country Harassment can include any behavior (verbal, not possess firearms, other weapons,
where you are employed sets forth the visual or physical) that creates an explosive devices or dangerous substances
foundational guidelines that ensure we treat intimidating, offensive, abusive or hostile or materials in the workplace.
each other well. Please read the Handbook in work environment.
If you believe you or any other employee
its entirety. We highlight a few principles here
We are committed to compliance with human has been subjected to any form of
that are important to all of our workplaces
rights laws. We are committed to upholding discrimination, harassment, or retaliation,
around the world.
fundamental human rights and believe that all notify your manager, the People Team, or
Having a diverse workforce — made up of human beings around the world should be the Uber Integrity Helpline.
team members who bring a wide variety of treated with dignity, fairness, and respect.
skills, abilities, experiences and perspectives Uber does not use or condone the use of
06 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct | Let’s do it right
Giving back We participate in many humanitarian and charitable endeavors. That participation
ranges from cash contributions to donations of Uber resources. When we choose to
Giving back is in our
participate in a community project and utilize limited employee time and company
resources, site management communicates to employees in advance that the effort is
DNA. You can participate
a company-sponsored project.
in company-sponsored
Be sure to separate your personal community activities from your work. Pursue
projects or your own community activities on your own time, with your own resources, as an individual
private citizen, and not as a representative of Uber. Do not claim to represent, or
projects. Or both.
imply representation of Uber to the public or in any public process or forum, unless
specifically requested to do so by management. And never contribute to a charitable
organization or cause in exchange for obtaining business for Uber.
07 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct
Telling our story
Uber has a positive impact on
communities throughout the world.
Sharing our story with the press
and on social media allows us to
counter misperceptions.
The Policy & Communications Team has tools and guidance on how to
help you engage with the press and on social media.
08 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct | Telling our story
Communicating with the media Uber is a high-profile company and from time to time, employees may be approached
by reporters and other members of the media. In order to ensure that we speak with
Loop in the Policy &
one voice and provide accurate information, you should direct all media inquiries to
press@uber.com. No one should speak to the press without first receiving permission
Communications Team
from the Uber communications team.
on all media requests
and inquiries.
09 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct | Telling our story
Social media Social media provides unique opportunities to share stories about our business and
to listen, learn and engage with users and communities. However, use of social media
Social media has the
also presents certain risks and carries with it certain responsibilities. To assist you
in making responsible decisions about your use of social media, the Employee
potential to affect Uber’s
Handbook sets forth guidelines for the appropriate use of social media. Please refer
reputation. Use it wisely. to the Employee Handbook for your region for those guidelines.
10 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct
Conflicts of Interest &
Government Relations
Uber does not buy market access,
business, or policy outcomes with
money, gifts, or other perks.
Our continued success depends on building good relationships with
customers, shareholders and governments. Let's do it right.
11 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct | Conflicts of Interest & Government Relations
Be loyal
Put Uber's interests above your own interests
when making business decisions.
At times, we may be faced with situations where the business actions Nepotism in Business Transactions: Awarding Uber business
we take on behalf of Uber may conflict with our own personal or family to a company owned or controlled by an Uber employee or his
interests. This issue could come up because the course of action that is or her family.
best for us personally may not also be the best course of action for
Board Service: Serving as a board member for an outside
Uber. We owe a duty to Uber to advance its legitimate interests.
commercial company or organization.
Determining whether a conflict of interest exists is not always easy to
Investments: Owning or having a substantial interest in a
do. Even an appearance of a conflict can look bad. Employees with a
competitor, supplier or contractor.
question regarding a conflict of interest should seek advice from their
manager. Before engaging in any activity, transaction or relationship
Interested Party Transactions: Having a personal interest,
that might give rise to a conflict of interest, employees must first notify
financial interest or potential gain in any Uber transaction,
their direct manager and seek review by completing the Outside
separate from being an Uber employee and shareholder.
Projects Disclosure Form.
Gifts: Accepting gifts, discounts, favors or services from a
Here are examples of conflicts of interest that you must discuss with
customer/potential customer, competitor or supplier, unless
your manager:
equally available to all Uber employees.
Conflicting Employment: You or a family member is working or
consulting for a competitor or potential competitor.
Nepotism in Hiring: Hiring or supervising family members or
others with whom you have a close, personal relationship.
12 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct | Conflicts of Interest & Government Relations
Receiving gifts & business We should avoid any actions that create a perception that Uber sought, or received,
entertainment favorable treatment from outside entities in exchange for business courtesies such as
gifts, gratuities, meals, refreshments, entertainment or other benefits.
Employees may accept
However, employees may accept unsolicited business courtesies of modest value that
modest, unsolicited gifts and promote successful working relationships and goodwill with our business partners. A
good rule of thumb is whether you would be comfortable telling your manager or
business entertainment.
having it known by the public. Be transparent.
Never money or gift cards.
Employees who award business or who can influence the allocation of business must
be particularly careful to avoid actions that create the appearance of favoritism or
that may adversely affect the company’s reputation for impartiality and fair dealing.
13 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct | Conflicts of Interest & Government Relations
Giving gifts & entertainment We may give modest gifts, swag, meals, and entertainment, so long as we follow
local laws and the recipient’s internal policies. An employee may never use personal
Employees may give modest
funds or resources to do something that cannot be done with Uber resources.
Accounting for business courtesies must be done in accordance with approved
gifts, but not to gain an
company procedures and accurately entered in Expensify.
unfair business advantage.
14 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct | Conflicts of Interest & Government Relations
Special rules for dealings with Global anti-corruption laws and Uber policy prohibit improper influence and giving
governments anything of value, such as financial payments, gifts, travel, inbound investment, service
agreements, partnerships and political contributions to government officials and
Be mindful of additional employees in exchange for business or policy outcomes. These laws apply globally, not
just in the United States, and cover not only Uber employees and contractors, but also
requirements regarding
third parties we retain, such as consultants and lobbyists.
government officials.
Uber’s Global Anti-Corruption Policy explains how to interact with government agencies
and officials when driving our business forward, including when retaining third parties
who interact with the government on our behalf. In some circumstances, hiring a close
relative of a government official as an employee could be interpreted as providing a
benefit in exchange for a favorable government decision.
The Global Policy for Hiring Relatives of Government Officials describes how to
consider and potentially hire close relatives of government officials in compliance with
legal requirements. Finally, Uber's Corporate Policy on our Applications and
Government Employees explains permitted and prohibited uses of our applications and
practices relative to government officials.
15 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct | Conflicts of Interest & Government Relations
Political activities & contributions You may support the political process through personal contributions or by
volunteering your personal time to the candidates or organizations of your choice. You
We should educate policy
may not conduct these activities on company time or use company resources.
makers and participate in
If you express a personal view in a public forum (such as a letter to the newspaper), do
not use Uber letterhead, company email, or reference your business title or address.
the public dialogue on
You may not make or commit to making political contributions on behalf of Uber.
policy issues that impact
The Employee Political Activity Policy requires you to obtain pre-approval from the
our business. Political Law team before making or soliciting any personal political contribution in the
United States. Request pre-approval via this form.
16 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct
Competing Fairly
We compete fiercely and fairly
and on the merits.
We make every effort to abide by the antitrust and competition laws
of all countries where we do business.
17 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct | Competing Fairly
Competitors & fair trade practices Antitrust and competition laws around the world are designed to promote fair
competition. They prohibit collusion among competitors (for example, agreement on
We support fair competition
prices, discounts, incentives, geographic allocation or exchanging commercially sensitive
information) as well as conduct that results in an unjustified “monopoly” position.
and free access to markets.
Uber’s policy is to comply with the antitrust and competition laws of all countries in
which we operate. Because of the complexity of these laws and the potential legal
consequences of violating them (including large fines and criminal penalties), Uber
employees must consult Legal (competition@uber.com) if they face a situation they
believe may involve antitrust or competition law issues.
18 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct | Competing Fairly
Accurate marketing We can promote our products and make comparisons between us and our competitors.
Deliberately misleading messages, leaving out important facts, or false claims about our
We accurately represent
products or competitors are inconsistent with our policies and Cultural Values.
Uber and our services in our
marketing, advertising and
sales materials.
19 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct | Competing Fairly
Competitive intelligence Gathering information about our competitors, often called competitive intelligence, is a
legitimate business practice. It helps us stay competitive in the marketplace. However,
We may only gain
we must never use any illegal or unethical means to get information about other
companies. Legitimate sources of competitive information include publicly available
information about our
information such as news accounts, industry surveys, and information available from
competitors from reliable Internet sources. These rules also apply to the consultants, vendors, and other
partners whom we hire. If you have questions, contact competition@uber.com.
legitimate sources.
20 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct
Protect Uber’s
Information & Assets
Riders, drivers and employees entrust
us with their information. We are
building products, tools and systems
to honor their trust.
One of our most important assets is our confidential information.
Employees who have received or have access to confidential information
must take care to keep this information confidential.
21 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct | Protect Uber’s Information & Assets
Rider & driver partner information Uber’s Employee Privacy Statement outlines how we collect, access, use, share, retain,
and delete such information. Uber’s Network Acceptable Use Policy prohibits employees
Riders and drivers trust us
from accessing riders’ and driver partners’ information without a legitimate business
purpose tied to an employee’s role and responsibilities.
with their confidential
and personally identifiable
information.
22 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct | Protect Uber’s Information & Assets
Employee personal information Uber’s Employee Privacy Statement describes the data that Uber may collect in
connection with your employment, and how that information may be accessed, used,
Our employees' privacy is
transferred and disclosed. The Employee Privacy Statement describes the steps that
Uber takes to prevent unlawful or unauthorized processing of employees’ personal
as important as drivers' and
information and the accidental loss of or damage to such information.
riders' privacy.
23 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct | Protect Uber’s Information & Assets
Company equipment Uber’s assets, including computers, phones, email and information, are meant to be
used for the benefit of the company. These assets are not for personal gain or for the
Use Uber's equipment for
benefit of others outside of Uber. It is your responsibility to keep Uber’s assets safe
from loss, theft, damage, or fraud (which includes inappropriate use). Your use of
Uber business.
Uber’s assets is subject to the Employee Privacy Statement and the Network &
Device Acceptable Use Policy.
24 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct
Contracting, Financial
Reporting & Recordkeeping
We are transparent, honest and
accurate when entering into contracts,
disclosing financial information, and
maintaining records.
25 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct | Contracting, Financial Reporting & Recordkeeping
Contracts & trade compliance
We follow procurement and trade
compliance laws.
Our Global Procurement Policy provides guidelines and establishes Products. Sensitive technologies, including those that support
procedures for all Uber employees in any situation where they are autonomy, may require licenses for import and export. If you
involved in a purchasing process. U.S. federal law requires that are involved in these activities you are responsible for
subcontractors follow certain government procurement rules related to knowing and following these laws. Contact compliance@uber.com
ethics and business conduct. You are expected to know and comply with with questions.
all government procurement rules applicable to our business.
We do not cooperate with foreign boycotts that are not approved by
Uber complies with global import and export laws and regulations that the U.S. government. If you receive a request related to any boycott,
impact with whom we can do business (People), where we operate contact compliance@uber.com and do not respond to the request.
(Places) and the transfer of sensitive technologies (Products).
Money laundering is conduct designed to disguise proceeds of
People. Our systems and processes have been designed to criminal activity by individuals or entities. We forbid knowingly
facilitate compliance with payments to drivers and suppliers, as engaging in transactions that facilitate money laundering or result in
well as hiring employees and contingent workers, so use unlawful diversion.
established systems and processes for all financial transactions
and hiring decisions.
Places. We currently are prohibited from operating in Cuba, Iran,
North Korea, Sudan, Syria and the Crimea region of Ukraine
without a license. Contact compliance@uber.com if you want to
explore doing business in or with individuals in these geographies
to ensure we do so lawfully.
26 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct | Contracting, Financial Reporting & Recordkeeping
Accurate financial & public disclosures We are responsible for ensuring that financial reports and public filings meet legal
requirements or accounting standards. Investors count on us to provide
We are responsible for
accurate information so they can make informed decisions. Never make a false or
misleading entry.
providing accurate, complete
It is also your responsibility to be transparent, cooperative and complete with outside
and clear information about
accountants regarding any audit or review of our company’s financial statements. If
our business. you have reason to believe that any of our company’s books and records are being
maintained in a materially inaccurate or incomplete manner, you are required to report
this immediately to the A-team, the Internal Audit or the Uber Integrity Helpline.
27 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct | Contracting, Financial Reporting & Recordkeeping
Corporate recordkeeping We create, retain and dispose of our company records as part of our normal course of
business in compliance with Uber's email and document retention policies and
Our records make up our
guidelines, as well as all regulatory and legal requirements.
corporate memory and
All corporate records must be true, accurate and complete, and company data must
be promptly and accurately entered in our books according to Uber’s policies and
contain information
other accounting principles.
critical to the continuity
We must not improperly influence, manipulate or mislead any audit, nor interfere
of our business. with any auditor engaged to perform an internal independent audit of Uber books,
records, processes or internal controls.
28 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct | Contracting, Financial Reporting & Recordkeeping
Code of Ethics for Directors This Business Conduct Guide applies, in its entirety, to all of Uber’s members of the
Board of Directors, officers and employees. However, only the following sections
Our Directors, Officers and constitute the Code of Ethics for the purposes of the rules of the SEC and the listing
standards of the New York Stock Exchange: Speak Up, Be Yourself & Treat Each Other
Employees must comply
Well, Giving Back, Telling Our Story, Conflicts of Interest & Government Relations,
with the Code of Ethics. Competing Fairly, Protect Uber’s Information & Assets, Contracting, Financial Reporting
& Recordkeeping. Sections listed include any subsections contained therein. All sections
not listed above, as well as all sidebars, Q&A’s, examples, and linked policies
or documents, are not included in the Code of Ethics.
29 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.Business Code of Conduct
Help If you are exploring a potential business relationship with a political entity, and for
other similar questions, please contact political-law@uber.com.
If you come across an issue
For questions on legal matters and communication, contact litparalegals@uber.com.
not addressed within the
For questions on privacy and security, contact privacyteam@uber.com.
sections of this Guide or
Contact competition@uber.com for questions on competitive practices, including before
Q&A page, you may contact
attending any meeting with a competitor, because such meetings may raise antitrust
concerns.
the following resources for
For questions regarding contracts, recordkeeping, financial reporting, or anti-corruption
answers to specific
questions, contact compliance@uber.com.
questions pertaining to your
To raise a concern with the Uber Integrity Helpline, call (800) 461-9330 or go online.
everyday work.
For questions pertaining to topics such as Uber's social media policy, access the
Employee Handbook.
Uber’s Global Anti-Corruption Policy explains how to interact with government agencies
and officials when driving our business forward,
30 Uber confidential. Do not distribute.