Date April 21, 2020
Declaration on Corporate Responsibility
Wirecard AG bears responsibility. As a financial infrastructure company for payment processing, the
company ensures the reliability of cashless payment processes worldwide, thus contributing an important
component to the development of the digitized society. Internationally, the importance of digital payment
and online commerce is growing steadily among all social classes and is particularly noticeable in these
times of restricted personal freedom of movement due to the corona virus. This would not be possible
without the digital financial infrastructure behind it.
Wirecard defines its responsibility also in accordance with the requirements of the ESG categories. For
Wirecard, environmental protection, social responsibility and responsibility in sustainable corporate
management are the foundations of its corporate activities. Wirecard acknowledges the requirements of
the EU Green Taxonomy and assures that its economic activity is ecologically sustainable, that damage to
the environment is not part of its business activities and that the company sees itself as part of a circular
economy. Wirecard employs around 5,500 people worldwide. The company complies with all local social
standards and guarantees employee rights in the various nations and jurisdictions in which it has
employees. Wirecard is committed to the upholding of human rights at all its locations. Wirecard's global
presence extends to the regions of Europe, Asia-Pacific, Latin America, North America and Middle East/
Africa. The European core markets are Germany, France, Great Britain, Ireland, Austria and Romania.
Wirecard's international presence is structured in five core locations, with a number of smaller country units
assigned to each core location. In Europe, this is the group headquarters in Aschheim, in the Asia-Pacific
region Singapore, in Latin America São Paulo, in North America Conshohocken (Philadelphia) and in the
Middle East/ Africa region Dubai. Wirecard complies with the Corporate Governance Code and follows the
rules for good corporate management. The company issues annual declarations of compliance in
accordance with Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act.
The management of Wirecard AG acknowledges its responsibility to address these issues appropriately.
ESG
Society
2 billion people, around a quarter of the world's total population, currently have no access to financial
services. In this regard, Wirecard makes a contribution to sustainable development. Some of its productsinclude prepaid card solutions for people who have no access to credit cards or traditional bank accounts.
Our services also enable secure and simple handling via mobile terminals, easy access to mobile e-
accounts and the avoidance of cash, including for hygiene reasons. Future growth in this business area will
be supported by the global megatrend of digitization. With its risk management and anti-fraud systems,
Wirecard AG helps business customers to cope with the challenges of global e-commerce and to minimize
sales losses as a result.
Wirecard AG is currently establishing a sustainability management system that monitors non-financial
issues and services along the entire value chain and advises the Management Board on sustainability
issues. Wirecard AG has been conducting a materiality analysis since 2018 which is updated regularly.
This involves evaluating and analyzing the expectations and requirements of relevant stakeholder groups.
The aim is to identify those issues that are of particular importance to the company's business activities
and have a significant impact on them. Furthermore, Wirecard will define qualitative and quantitative
measurement figures (KPIs) and give regular progress updates.
Environmental protection
The Wirecard AG business model per se has only minor environmental impact and related risks. The
cashless transactions of the more than 300,000 merchants connected worldwide are processed virtually
paperless using the fully digital platform of Wirecard AG. The decentralized, global data centers of Wirecard
AG are operated with electricity from renewable energies wherever possible. The business activities of
Wirecard AG do not pollute groundwater or air. Moreover, the support of online trading reduces individual
trips and reduces the load on traffic routes.
Climate protection
With regard to the business model, the Group Risk Management of Wirecard AG has not identified any
climate-related, material risks at present, although constant monitoring is carried out within the framework
of the internal "Wirecard Group Risk Policy".
New technologies enable Wirecard to create new sales potential with customers operating business models
relevant to climate protection, for example in the areas of e-mobility and car sharing as well as smart grids.
At the same time, Wirecard is developing an emissions management system to establish an emissions
reduction strategy.Today, for example, we are already involved in these areas:
 Use of green energy for all data centers worldwide
 Energy efficiency measures in the area of company-wide power supply
At our location in the U.S., Wirecard has been compensating for business trips through a carbon offsetting
provider since 2019. In 2020, Wirecard AG will report on its emissions performance for the first time within
the scope of the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project). Further measures are currently in preparation.
Employees
For an international service-oriented company, employees are the most valuable asset. In order to bind
them to the company in the long term and provide them with additional qualifications, Wirecard regularly
invests in the training and continuing education of its staff.
Wirecard does not tolerate any discrimination or disadvantages at its operating units. All executives of
Wirecard AG worldwide are required to immediately and consistently stop any kind of discrimination.
Wirecard also counters all forms of harassment with a zero tolerance strategy.
By treating everyone with trust and respect, Wirecard creates the necessary foundation that enables each
individual employee to optimally develop his or her potential and to experience appreciation. Wirecard hires
employees solely on the basis of their abilities and fosters them purposefully.
Wirecard aims to be perceived globally as an attractive employer and to inspire the best talents for the
company.
Since diversity and equal opportunities are also to be ensured at the management and monitoring level, a
diversity concept was developed for the composition of the Group's Management Board and Supervisory
Board.
The company complies with all local, social and legal standards and guarantees employee rights and equal
opportunities in the various nations and jurisdictions in which it employs people. Wirecard is committed to
the upholding of human rights at all its locations and opposes wage dumping.Governance
The Wirecard AG is committed to corporate responsibility and respects the recommendations of the
Corporate Governance Code for good corporate management. The company issues annual declarations
of conformity in accordance with Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act.
In June 2019, the Supervisory Board of Wirecard AG formed the following committees to improve its control
functions:
 Audit Committee
 Compensation Committee
 Personnel and Nomination Committee.
In the Code of Conduct, the Board of Management has defined the values that determine the Group's social
and ethical self-image and provide the essential framework for guiding our actions. It is based on three
principles:
 Integrity and reliability
 Communication, privacy and transparency
 Respect and responsibility
As a result of the company's growth and the avoidance of concentrations of power, the Executive Board is
to be expanded by an anticipated two positions from four to six members.
Compliance
The definition of corporate values in a Code of Conduct and the specification of these values in internal
guidelines are part of the compliance management system of Wirecard AG. In particular, this includes
training all employees with regard to compliance-relevant topics and the possibility of anonymously
submitting information via a whistleblowing system. The compliance requirements are also imposed on
business partners and are regulated by contract in our IT purchasing conditions as part of the process of
integration of compliance clauses.
In 2019, the Group Compliance Office, which is responsible for the entire Group, was established as an
independent department within the Wirecard AG as parent company of the Group. The department is
responsible for developing a Group-wide compliance strategy and for processes and systems for
implementing compliance requirements, particularly with regard to the non-financial issues of anti-corruption and data protection, and monitors their Group-wide implementation as well as their operational
execution.
A standardized Group-wide training concept was implemented and, for the purpose of realizing this concept,
an online training course was purchased from an internationally renowned training provider, which includes
anti-corruption training as well as other compliance-relevant training topics.
Data protection and information security
As a technology company, we are aware of the data protection and data security risks associated with the
digitization of payment processes. The use as well as the protection of personal data are integral
components of the business model of Wirecard and its subsidiaries.
There is regular coordination between the Group Compliance Office and the external data protection officer
as well as the IT departments involved in order to be able to map data protection regulations in terms of
procedures and systems.
Group-wide risk analysis is a central control element in the Group-wide prevention of money laundering
and terrorist financing. In addition, the Group AML Office department provides support and advice to local
anti-money laundering officers and product managers in the development of new products, the opening up
of new markets or the exploitation of new sales opportunities.
Perspective
As a stock exchange-listed company, Wirecard AG sees transparency as a key aspect of effective market
and capital market communication. To this end, the company has created a separate transparency section
on its homepage in 2020, where it reports on significant business developments. This also includes the full
publication of a special review report, which is intended to disprove accusations made against Wirecard. In
the first half of 2020, Wirecard also intends to provide information on the subject of sustainability and to
present its achievements on its website. The non-financial statement to be published in April 2020 contains
additional information.