Guiding the Way Forward — Xiaomi Corporation Code of Conduct for
Business Partners1. Scope of application
This Code of Conduct applies to all Business Partners of Xiaomi, including Xiaomi's distributors,
dealers, suppliers, agents and other upstream and downstream partners (hereinafter referred
to as "Business Partners").
In respect of the content of the Code of Conduct, Xiaomi does not exclude the possibility of
making specific regulations and issuing corresponding norms for certain matters as required.
22. Interpretation and revision
Xiaomi is entitled to modify, revise or adjust certain content of this Code of Conduct in
accordance with changes in circumstances. To the extent permitted by law, Xiaomi reserves the
right of final interpretation of the Code of Conduct.
33. Integrity
Xiaomi's Business Partners shall adhere to high standards of conduct with integrity in their
business activities. Business Partners shall not conduct business by fraud, falsification or other
dishonest methods for the purpose of obtaining unfair or illegitimate benefits, nor shall they harm
the legitimate rights and interests of other companies or individuals through any unlawful means,
such as unlawfully misappropriating the assets of others, or colluding or assisting other
companies' internal employees, other organisations or individuals.
44. Prohibition of commercial bribery
4.1 General principles
Xiaomi prohibits any Business Partners from, directly or indirectly1, offering, promising, giving, or
authorising money or any other valuables2 to any company or individual, including Xiaomi and its
employees, in the course of business activities, improperly influencing the recipient's fulfilment
of duties or decisions, in order to obtain or maintain improper interests3 in business or
commercial conduct.
The aforesaid conduct, even if not resulting in any actual improper interests, shall be deemed by
Xiaomi as commercial bribery and shall be strictly prohibited. The management of Business
Partners shall not approve, disguise, cooperate with or acquiesce in commercial bribery.
4.2 Gifts and entertainment
Business Partners shall avoid offering gifts or entertainment in the course of business activities.
Where it is necessary to offer gifts or entertainment, Business Partners shall ensure that:
 The offering of gifts and entertainment is not for any improper purpose or intent
 Relevant conduct complies with laws, regulations and business practices of the locality
 The gifts and entertainment provided are of appropriate value and which reflect the
applicable laws and guidelines.
 The frequency of offering is appropriate4
 The activity does not occur during a sensitive business period5
1 "Directly or indirectly" means that apart from offering bribes directly to the recipient of the bribe, any act of
bribery through a dealer, agent, contractor, intermediary or other third party is strictly prohibited.
2 The term "valuables" carries a broad definition. Not only does it include money, but also refers to travel,
entertainment, gifts, services, sponsorships, job opportunities, medical resources, academic opportunities,
repayment of debt, low- or zero-interest loans, and other tangible or intangible benefits. Payments or benefits of
even small amounts that are intended for, or constitute, bribery are prohibited.
3 "Improper interests" refer to any commercial or financial interests, which may be a monetary benefit, a business
opportunity or a competitive advantage. For example, the obtaining of new sales orders or business opportunities,
resolving commercial disputes, and obtaining trade secrets etc., shall be considered improper interests.
4 Appropriate frequency refers to the frequency generally accepted during the course of normal business dealings.
For example, the frequency of offering meals to the same recipient every day in a month or taking gifts offered by
the same person every month in a year is usually deemed unreasonable.
5 Refers to any acceptance or offering of gifts, entertainment or travel funds during such a period which may be
reasonably believed by an independent third party to influence a certain decision of the recipient. Examples are: i)
when applying for a certificate or licence; ii) when bidding for a project; iii) during the period of contract execution
or renewal; iv) key delivery or payment timing; v) during major disputes, litigation or administrative penalties, etc.
5In addition, Xiaomi also prohibits Business Partners from offering the following types of gifts or
entertainment to any company or individual in the course of business activities:
Prohibited gifts (including but not limited to):
 Cash and cash equivalents, including but not limited to gold bars, marketable securities,
savings insurance, fund units, lottery tickets, various kinds of business gift cards,6 etc.;
 Gifts of significantly higher value than those required for regular business dealings,
including but not limited to immovable property, automobiles, jewellery, luxury clothing
and handbags, etc.;
 Gifts that may be considered immoral or contrary to universal values, even if the purchase
of such gifts is locally considered to be legitimate, including, but not limited to ivory
products, red coral products, rhino horn products, books or video or audio products
containing adult content, etc.;
 Gifts that may harm the health of the recipient, including but not limited to drugs,
substances similar to drugs,7 etc.;
 Gifts outside the scope of normal business dealings, including but not limited to firearms,
prescription drugs, fitness cards, membership cards for high-end clubs, etc.
Prohibited entertainment (including but not limited to):
 Entertainment that may be considered immoral or contrary to universal values, even if
such entertainment is considered to be legitimate locally, including but not limited to
adult entertainment, gambling, and eating protected animals, etc.;
 Excessively high-value or lavish entertainment items, including but not limited to high-
end or private club spending, domestic and foreign tourism, luxury cruises, etc.;
 High-risk entertainment that may endanger the recipient's personal safety, including but
not limited to sports and extreme sports for which protection measures are inadequate,
etc.;
 Private entertainment or recreational activities, including but not limited to family
gatherings, class reunions, etc.;
 Directly or indirectly accepting or offering cash or cash equivalents as entertainment
6 Business gift cards include but are not limited to stored-value cards, vouchers, shopping cards, spending coupons,
and other gift cards and vouchers that have an actual face value and that are tradable or freely used in the market.
Seasonal vouchers for material objects, such as mooncake vouchers for the Mid-Autumn Festival and rice dumpling
vouchers for the Dragon Boat Festival are, however, excluded.
7 Substances similar to drugs include but are not limited to marijuana, hallucinogenic mushrooms, and laughing
gas, etc., that are legal and permitted for sale in certain countries.
6expenses, including but not limited to accepting cash for internal activity expenses of the
company, paying for internal activities of the other company, etc.
4.3 Travel funds
Only travel funds that are provided to the employees of Business Partners on the basis of
effective contracts or written agreements, such as confirmation emails or correspondence, with
other companies or individuals are permitted by Xiaomi.
Travel expenses borne by Business Partners shall only include transportation expenses,
accommodation expenses or other miscellaneous travel expenses directly related to business
activities, such as visa fees, and baggage charges, etc. Other types of expenses such as food and
beverage expenses, entertainment expenses, sightseeing expenses, personal activity expenses,
and gift expenses, etc., should not be included in travel expenses
In addition, Business Partners shall ensure that the itinerary of relevant business travel is short,
reasonable, necessary and, in principle, must be the most economical option.
Xiaomi prohibits Business Partners from providing the following types of travel funds to any
company or individual:
 Travel without reasonable business purposes, including but not limited to private tourism,
non-business-related travel, and travel with tourism items included in the itinerary, etc.;
 Travel activities of persons unrelated to the business activities, which include but are not
limited to spouses, children, partners and other family members of the recipient or other
accompanying persons unrelated to the business activities;
 Travel funds to individuals in the form of cash or cash equivalents, including cash advances,
no matter whether the cash or cash equivalents are used to pay for travel expenses, or
are to reimburse travel expenses already paid, or are to be returned in the future;
 Travel activities that are inappropriate, illegal, not in line with business practices or that
may be considered to be bribery or corruption, including but not limited to travelling by
private plane, offering business or first class cabin treatment to low and medium-level
personnel, and excessively lavish accommodations, etc. Such activities also include
inappropriate changes in the course of travel, such as cabin upgrades and hotel room
upgrades, etc.
74.4 Offering personal benefits
Without proper justification, Xiaomi's Business Partners shall not offer any form of personal
benefits to any company or individual in the course of business activities, including but not
limited to:
 Offering free services such as decoration services, personal chauffeur services, etc.;
 Offering medical resources, such as registrations for expert diagnosis, beds in key hospitals
etc., and bearing the cost of diagnosis and treatment;
 Through special relationships, assisting the other party in accessing scarce resources, for
example, educational resources (such as opportunities to attend key schools), household
registration, house purchase qualification, and other resources with restrictions;
 Providing low or zero-interest loans other than normal financial lending;
 Providing personal debt relief without reasonable justification;
 Meeting other improper requests made by employees of any related parties in any way;
85. Prohibition of conflicts of interest
Without Xiaomi's permission, Business Partners shall not create conflicts of interest in their
business activities with Xiaomi, including but not limited to:
 Except for normal lending with financial institutions, no lending activity between Business
Partners and employees of Xiaomi is permitted, that is, neither party may provide loans
to the other party or assist the other party in obtaining loans, such as by providing loan
guarantees, etc.;
 Shareholders, directors, supervisors, senior executives, managers, persons in charge of
business cooperation with Xiaomi and business team members of Business Partners may
not be Xiaomi employees or their related parties;
 In the course of cooperation between the two parties, Business Partners shall not permit
Xiaomi employees or their related parties to hold equity in the Business Partner or
through a third party;
Exceptions are as follows: 1) The total interests held by Xiaomi employees through
securities trading in the open market are less than 1% of the total outstanding equity
shares issued by the Business Partner. 2) Xiaomi employees indirectly hold the
outstanding equity shares issued by the Business Partner through mutual funds, public
trusts and other financial institutions, and do not have any influence on the investment
decisions of the aforesaid financial institutions;
 Business Partners shall not instigate or induce in any way Xiaomi employees to resign or
to violate their duties, including but not limited to using any means to require Xiaomi
employees to provide confidential information or to engage Xiaomi employees in
businesses that compete with Xiaomi.
At the time Xiaomi's Business Partners know or should know of the aforesaid conflicts of
interest, they shall promptly disclose such to Xiaomi, and Xiaomi shall assess and decide upon
the conflict of interest matters.
96. Protection of trade secrets
Trade secrets refer to technical information, business information and other commercial
information that is unknown to the public, which can bring economic benefits to the rights
holder, is of practical use, and is subject to appropriate confidentiality measures taken by
Xiaomi. Xiaomi's Business Partners shall take reasonable, effective and necessary precautions to
protect the trade secrets of Xiaomi which they obtain from infringement.
Business Partners shall not disclose, divulge or provide Xiaomi's trade secrets to other
organisations or individuals without the authorisation of Xiaomi. In addition, Business Partners
shall manage and restrict their internal employees who know Xiaomi's trade secrets, and
require them to comply with the code of conduct for trade secrets protection, including but not
limited to:
 Not sharing Xiaomi's trade secrets with friends, family members or any other
unauthorised persons;
 Never discussing Xiaomi's trade secrets in public places, such as aeroplanes, lifts,
restaurants or other places where others may hear the trade secrets;
 Not leaving trade secrets unattended in places where they may be obtained by others, for
example, placing paper documents containing Xiaomi's trade secrets on a desk when
leaving or failing to lock the screen of a computer containing Xiaomi's trade secrets, etc.;
 Not storing documents containing Xiaomi's trade secrets on electronic devices, such as
personal computers or storage devices, or cloud servers, such as personal network drives,
that are not owned or designated by the company;
 Not transmitting Xiaomi's trade secrets through methods that are not permitted by Xiaomi,
for example, via We Chat, QQ, and personal email, etc.;
 Regardless of the medium in which Xiaomi's trade secrets are stored, for example, as
printed materials, electronic files, email, verbal conversations, audio and video recordings
etc., Business Partners shall be proactive in protecting the trade secrets.
Business Partners who discover any act or sign of infringement of Xiaomi's trade secrets shall
promptly inform Xiaomi so that the Business Partner and Xiaomi are able to take prompt action
to protect the security of the trade secrets.
107. Workers' rights and interests, health, safety and anti-discrimination
7.1 General principles
Xiaomi requires Business Partners to respect the rights and interests of workers, their personal
health and safety, and to treat every employee according to the principle of non-discrimination.
7.2 Protection of workers' rights and interests
Business Partners shall abide by the norms generally accepted by the international community
and labour laws of the jurisdiction to respect and safeguard the basic rights and interests, and
dignity, of workers. Business Partners shall adhere to the following:
 To not benefit from any forced or compulsory labour.
 To not employ people under the age of 16 (or older subject to local laws) for any work
unless expressly permitted by applicable laws.
 To comply with applicable laws and regulations regarding working hours, wages, and
benefits.
 To not treat employees in a harsh and inhuman manner.
 In accordance with the requirements of applicable laws, to respect the rights of
employees to associate freely, negotiate collectively, and organise and join trade unions.
7.3 Health and safety
Business Partners shall provide healthy and safe working conditions, and comply with health
and safety laws and regulations of the locality as well as directives of local governments.
Business Partners shall establish the necessary systems and take measures to prevent safety
incidents, injuries or any other work-related illnesses.
7.4 Prohibition of discrimination for any reason
Business Partners shall not discriminate against any person due to any reasons or factors,
including but not limited to ethnicity, race, skin colour, gender, sexual orientation, national
origin, religion, political affiliation, age, disability, marital status, family background, genetic
information or any other personal characteristics protected by law.
118. Product quality
Business Partners shall understand and abide by the relevant laws, regulations, and standard
processes related to product quality and safety. When promoting and selling Xiaomi products
and related services, Business Partners shall ensure that the product specifications and
conditions comply with the requirements of laws, regulations, and technical standards with
respect to product quality and safety in the locality in question, and ensure product compliance
and the health and safety of users.
129. Anti-Trust and fair competition
Business Partners shall comply with applicable anti-trust laws and other laws and regulations on
competition. Business Partners shall not engage in any conduct that may illegally prevent, restrict
or distort fair competition, including but not limited to entering into agreements, decisions or
other concerted practices with other parties that exclude or restrict competition, abuse of
dominant market position, concentration of undertakings without statutory procedures that
have or may have the effect of excluding or restricting competition, false advertising, and
illegitimately defaming competitors or their products.
1310. Privacy and data security
Business Partners shall understand and abide by applicable laws and regulations regarding
privacy and data security, and shall take any appropriate organisational and technical measures
to prevent the unauthorised use or disclosure of personal data and/or other confidential
information of other persons. Business Partners shall only access, collect, use, share, transmit
or store the personal information of others when such acts are specially authorised and are
necessary for legitimate business purposes. Business Partners shall adhere to the principle of
transparency and clearly inform users of the reasons for their collection and the use of data
prior to collecting personal information of others. Business Partners shall implement
appropriate safeguards to ensure that personal information, its completeness and security are
protected in accordance with applicable data privacy laws.
1411. Intellectual property
Business Partners shall respect the intellectual property rights of Xiaomi and third parties, and
shall not infringe or improperly use such intellectual property rights, including but not limited to
copyrights, patents, trademarks, and trade secrets.
1512. Trade compliance
Xiaomi Corporation strictly complies with, and enforces, all applicable international trade laws
and regulations as well as China's commitment to the United Nations (hereinafter referred to as
the "Applicable Laws"), and effectively fulfils its duties and obligations related to trade
compliance. In order to comply with trade compliance requirements, Business Partners shall
undertake and warrant that:
 Business Partners shall comply with all applicable international trade laws and regulations
and all Applicable Laws relating to import, sale, export, re-export, assignment, re-
assignment, lease or financing of any jurisdiction.
 Regarding any technology, technical data, software code or other information, hardware,
equipment or the components thereof (hereinafter referred to as the "Items") provided
by Business Partners to Xiaomi, the disclosure of Items or the provision of Items to Xiaomi
shall not violate any Applicable Laws. Business Partners shall neither disclose nor provide
Xiaomi Items to any embargoed countries/embargoed areas under any Applicable Laws
and/or to any entities whose receipt of Xiaomi Items is prohibited or restricted by any
Applicable Laws, and shall not use Xiaomi Items for any purposes prohibited by the
Applicable Laws.
 Where export permits or other government authorisations are required by the Applicable
Laws, Business Partners shall not export, re-export, assign, or re-assign any Xiaomi Items
before obtaining the required permits and government authorisations.
1613. Environmental protection
Business Partners shall minimise adverse impacts on communities, the environment, and natural
resources in the production and operation process, and shall comply with applicable international
environmental treaties and environmental laws of the locality, including but not limited to:
 Environmental licensing and reporting. Business Partners shall obtain and update
statutory environmental permits, emissions monitoring, approval, and registration
documents in a timely manner and comply with operational and reporting requirements
under environmental laws.
 Management of chemicals. Business Partners shall identify and effectively manage
chemicals and other materials that cause harm to human health, personal safety or the
environment at all stages of production.
 Pollution prevention and control. Business Partners shall comply with laws and regulations
relating to contaminants, including solid waste, waste water, exhaust gas, noise etc., and
proactively seek ways to reduce or eliminate the generation of pollutants. Business
Partners shall not use or release toxic or hazardous substances prohibited by laws and
regulations.
 Energy saving and emissions reduction. Business Partners shall, based on their own
operation conditions, reduce the use of water, electricity and other natural resources and
the emission of greenhouse gases as much as possible.
 Saving resources. Business Partners shall identify and adopt resource saving methods
based on their own operations and resources (such as raw materials, energy, and water)
consumption conditions, and make efforts to recycle waste and promote the circular
economy.
1714. Reporting misconduct
We encourage Business Partners to fight against any corruption or misconduct. Business
Partners may report and provide evidence through Xiaomi's official reporting channels in the
event of encountering any of the following circumstances during the course of business
activities with Xiaomi:
 Business Partners being treated unfairly in the course of cooperation with Xiaomi.
 Xiaomi employees requiring, instigating or coercing Business Partners to violate any one
or more provisions of this Code of Conduct (for example, Xiaomi employees soliciting
bribes from Business Partners).
 Business Partners discovering that other companies or organisations working with Xiaomi
are in violation of the relevant provisions of this Code of Conduct.
 Business Partners identifying other fraud, corruption, misconduct or dishonest conduct
related to Xiaomi's business.
Xiaomi will take misconduct reported by Business Partners seriously and conduct investigations,
deal with verified issues seriously, and provide the results to Business Partners who report the
misconduct.
Xiaomi's official reporting channels are as follows:
 Reporting email address: tousu@xiaomi.com
 Online reporting platform: https://integrity.mi.com/
18