Code of
Conduct
1 noitpO
yrarbiL nrettaP odnalaZZalando Code of Conduct
Contents
Our approach 3 Environmental protection 12
To whom does the Code of Conduct apply? 4 Environmental protection 13
Our expectations 4
Consequences in case of violations 5 Fair and ethical business practices 14
Anti-corruption and anti-financial crime 15
Human and labor rights 6 Privacy, fair competition, intellectual property 16
Human and labor rights 7 Corporate digital responsibility 17
Equal treatment 7
Employment contracts, compensation, Monitoring and complaints 18
working hours 8 Monitoring and complaints 19
Health and safety 9
Child labor and young workers 9
Forced and migrant labor 10
Conflict minerals and metals 10
Freedom of association and collective bargaining 11Zalando Code of Conduct Our approach 3
Our approach
At Zalando, we want to build and strengthen solid and aspirational
partnerships. It is important to us that all stakeholders – customers,
employees and Business Partners – experience Zalando as an
organization that values human and labor rights, ethical standards,
compliance with the law, diversity and inclusion, and our planet as
a whole. We also believe that integrity, respect and transparency
are the foundation of a healthy business culture. As we continue to
raise the bar for ourselves and our partners, we will hold ourselves
accountable to these standards, and expect our Business Partners
to conduct themselves in line with this Code of Conduct as well.Zalando Code of Conduct Our approach 4
To whom does the Our expectations
Code of Conduct apply?
This Code of Conduct applies to all Business Partners – This Code of Conduct provides principles to guide Zalando
including suppliers, service providers, platform partners, and our Business Partners in our joint effort to grow
distributors, consultants and agents (“Business Partners”) our businesses in a fair and sustainable way globally.
of ZALANDO SE and all its subsidiaries (“Zalando”). We expect our Business Partners not only to comply
Beyond that, we challenge our Business Partners to with these guidelines, but to strive towards ambitious
take additional steps to improve conditions within their improvement beyond compliance with regulatory obligations.
own value chain. In some cases, and depending on the We also urge our Business Partners to integrate these
industry of the Business Partner, Zalando has issued standards throughout their own value chain, and to
more detailed guidance on ethical standards which we observe best-practice minimums for all individuals, from the
additionally expect Business Partners to comply with. fields to the corporate offices. The obligations outlined in
this Code of Conduct are based on international standards,
including ILO Conventions and the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights (UDHR) and we encourage Business
Partners to move towards best practice.Zalando Code of Conduct Our approach 5
Consequences in
case of violations
Zalando will not tolerate any violations with regard to human
and labor rights, breaches of law or other violations of this
Code of Conduct – whether these occur directly in person
or in the online space. Whenever we become aware of
any form of intolerable conduct, we will firmly and swiftly
evaluate the relationship with the concerned Business
Partner. Zalando reserves the right to conduct audits related
to Business Partner’s compliance with this Code of Conduct,
co-define risk mitigation plans within an agreed timeline and
to terminate relationships with Business Partners that are not
able or willing to act in line with the requirements outlined.Zalando Code of Conduct Human and labor rights 6
Human and
labor rightsZalando Code of Conduct Human and labor rights 7
Human and labor rights Equal treatment
Zalando takes a clear stance on the issue of human and We at Zalando are unequivocal in our belief that all people
labor rights. All people, irrespective of their role in the should be treated equally. We require the highest standards
value chain, are entitled to respectful treatment and fair from our own teams in this regard, and expect similar behavior
and safe working conditions. Therefore, our Business from our Business Partners.
Partners must protect fundamental human rights and –
at a minimum – respect all applicable local labor and This applies, for example, to anti-discrimination measures.
safety laws. We define discrimination as the unfair treatment of an
individual or group of people who are different in some way
from others, for instance in the form of racial discrimination,
or based on national origin, religion, gender, sexual orientation,
age, pregnancy, physical or mental disability, or union
membership. No one should be treated differently based on
any of these aspects. We at Zalando place heavy emphasis
on valuing the differences of opinions, beliefs, and life choices
of the individual, and we expect that no employment decision
is ever made on the basis of any type of discriminatory view.Zalando Code of Conduct Human and labor rights 8
Employment contracts,
compensation, working hours
In addition, it is our strong belief that no individual should Zalando expects Business Partners to provide workers
be harassed – not generally, and certainly not at work. with a written employment contract outlining all relevant
This includes abusive words or conduct that create an information, including the agreed compensation and the
intimidating or hostile environment for an individual working hours. This contract should be written in a language
or group of people. This doesn’t have to be repeated understandable to the worker. Under no circumstances may
behavior, every incident of physical, sexual, psychological, the agreed compensation fall below the minimum wage as
and verbal abuse is unacceptable. defined by local law or industry standards. Working hours –
including overtime and taking into account mandatory rest
periods – must not exceed the legally permissible maximum,
or 48 working hours plus 12 overtime hours per week,
whichever is lower.Zalando Code of Conduct Human and labor rights 9
Health and safety Child labor and young workers
Everyone is entitled to work in a safe and hygienic environment. Zalando takes a zero tolerance view on child labor –
Business Partners must comply with all local workplace we will make absolutely no exceptions to this behavior.
safety laws and take appropriate steps to prevent injuries No children under the age of 15 or the minimum age
in the workplace, or to reduce negative health impacts of of employment under local law may be employed –
digital work environments. Workers must also have access whichever is higher. Furthermore, children must complete
to free and clean drinking water, clean toilets, first aid any compulsory education. All workers under the age of
equipment, fire extinguishers, and protective equipment 18 must have additional protections in comparison to
where needed. Emergency exits must remain unlocked and adult workers, particularly regarding overtime and
free of obstructions. Women must be provided with separate hazardous work. Proof of age must be reviewed prior
bathrooms, and must be specially protected during pregnancy. to employment, and documentation maintained.Zalando Code of Conduct Human and labor rights 10
Forced and migrant labor Conflict minerals and metals
We at Zalando will not accept any form of forced labor or Zalando also expects Business Partners to take
work conducted through deception, intimidation, or coercion. appropriate steps that assure any minerals and
This obligation requires that every worker must have their metals used in their production or products do not
basic human needs met during working hours (e.g. free to directly or indirectly fuel conflict in countries heavily
use the restroom, free to have a drink of water). All employees impacted by the mining industry.
must be free to terminate employment at any time in
accordance with the law. Furthermore, Zalando expects
that workers from other countries be employed only on the
basis of a valid work permit and that nobody unlawfully
denies workers access to their identity or immigration
documents. If accommodation is supplied, it must meet
all legal requirements, especially with regards to health
and safety regulations.Zalando Code of Conduct Human and labor rights 11
Freedom of association
and collective bargaining
Zalando requires Business Partners to respect the
legal right to freedom of association and collective
bargaining, including unionisation where legal under
local law. Any attempt to delay or interfere with such
processes is in direct conflict with Zalando’s values.
Business Partners should additionally make efforts
to ensure the voices of their workers are heard by
other means, including representation, mediation
and conflict resolution.Zalando Code of Conduct Environmental protection 12
Environmental
protectionZalando Code of Conduct Environmental protection 13
Environmental protection
We at Zalando take our role in protecting the Business Partners must comply with all applicable laws
environment seriously and acknowledge the many and regulations regarding the protection and preservation
ways our industry contributes to the environmental of the environment, including obtaining and maintaining
challenges we face. Therefore, as part of our vision all required environmental permits. We also encourage
to have a net-positive impact for people and the planet, our Business Partners to pursue aspirational commitments
we strive to further integrate environmental standards to environmental targets, particularly with regard to the
into our own operations and to continuously reduce reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, waste, air and
the environmental impact of our business. water pollution, and energy and water consumption.Zalando Code of Conduct Fair and ethical business practices 14
Fair and ethical
business practicesZalando Code of Conduct Fair and ethical business practices 15
Anti-corruption and
anti-financial crime
Corruption violates the integrity, respect, and transparency
upon which Zalando builds its business and maintains its
partnerships. Moreover, corruption undermines a healthy
business culture and impedes progress in important
commercial, social, and environmental areas. We do not
accept any form of corrupt practices and avoid conflicts of
interest. We expect Business Partners to be mindful of and
adhere to any anti-corruption laws that they and Zalando
are subject to. For instance, we do not tolerate any forms
of unlawful benefits (including donations and sponsoring)
to public officials or other decision-makers, irrespective of
whether they are made directly or via third parties like agents,
consultants, or brokers. Against the background that criminal
organisations try to legitimise their profits through many forms
of money laundering, we require our Business Partners to take
appropriate measures to shield themselves from
such practises.Zalando Code of Conduct Fair and ethical business practices 16
Privacy, fair competition,
intellectual property
At Zalando, we believe in trust and we work hard to build Therefore, we do not tolerate anti-competitive conduct
a trusted relationship with our customers. We go above from our Business Partners. This includes any forms of illegal
and beyond “just” handling our customer’s data with agreements, concerted practices, insider trading, or other
utmost care and conducting our business in accordance violations of antitrust and competition laws. Furthermore,
with the law. We act upon a set of core privacy principles Zalando also respects and protects intellectual property,
that guide us. We are transparent about how we handle trademarks and copyrights (“IP”) – its own as well as that of
our customers’ data and we give choice to our customers others. Therefore, we expect our Business Partners to avoid
about how we use their data. We embed privacy and any infringements of IP as well.
security into our business practice and we protect our
customers and their data. We call on our Business Partners
to partake in our efforts to go beyond mere compliance with
regulatory minimums. Beyond this, Zalando believes in a level
playing field and fair competition.Zalando Code of Conduct Fair and ethical business practices 17
Corporate digital responsibility
We create great experiences for our customers through
technology and digitalisation. We recognise and appreciate
that with creation and technological innovation comes
(digital) responsibility. This includes respecting social
values and human self-determination, putting people at
the centre, acting in a fair and transparent manner, and
avoiding harm to customers, society and the environment.
We contribute to a digitally inclusive and sustainable future
and we strive towards the principles set out in the Corporate
Digital Responsibility Codex (CDR1). We believe that digital
responsibility is a joint effort across all industries. We invite
and encourage all our Business Partners to recognise and
appreciate their own digital responsibility in accordance with
the CDRs.
1 https://cdr-initiative.de/kodexZalando Code of Conduct Monitoring and complaints 18
Monitoring
and complaintsZalando Code of Conduct Monitoring and complaints 19
Monitoring and complaints
We cannot fix what we do not see and understand. At a Once a complaint is raised, Business Partners must guarantee
corporate level, we require management systems to be that they will follow up on respective reports in a solution-
in place that are appropriate for their size and risk structure. oriented manner.
In addition to this, our Business Partners must be aware
of all companies, sites and other partners they are working Whistleblowers must be protected. Nobody should suffer any
with, and should be able to provide information about related direct or indirect disadvantages for reporting – in good faith –
due diligence processes when it comes to the topics outlined what they perceive as problematic behaviour or interpret as
in this Code of Conduct. For some types of partners we illegal conduct. Therefore, Zalando expects Business Partners
request that all subcontracting is disclosed to us. to communicate an unequivocal non-retaliation principle.
This also applies to the individual level: In the event anyone Zalando has a whistleblowing tool2, which also allows for
feels that any provision of this Code of Conduct could have anonymous reporting – any partner connected to Zalando
been violated, it is absolutely critical to ensure that each should feel encouraged to report potential acts of non-
individual throughout the value chain has the opportunity compliance by using the tool or by sending an email to
to raise a concern. For this purpose, each Business Partner compliance@zalando.de.
should provide effective mechanisms that enable individuals
to report any grievances in a safe and/or anonymous way.
2 https://www.whistleblowing-zalando.de/20

ZALANDO SE
Valeska-Gert-Straße 5
10243 Berlin