Code of Ethics
Code of Ethics ContentsThe Zalando Code of Ethics outlines the Contents
standards to which we as a company
adhere. Based on fundamental values
of honesty, respect, trust, and fairness,
the code sets clear expectations for the
professional, ethical, and responsible
behavior of all employees.
We believe it is only by committing to be our best that
we can build the great products our customers need,
hire the great people our teams need, and reimagine
fashion in a way that is truly for the good of all. Every
one of us contributes to this purpose through everyday
words and actions.
Ultimately, it is these moments that make us who we are
and who we can be in the future. The Code of Ethics
does not tell us exactly what to do in every one of these
situations but it does provide guiding principles. We ask
you to act by the code and use good judgement.Introduction Contents
To whom does this Code apply? What if I have a question or concern?
The Zalando Code of Ethics applies to all of us. If you experience inappropriate behavior, feel
From new joiners to founders, everyone at Zalando discriminated against or harassed, don’t assume
is expected to know and follow the standards outlined that others already know. If you have a question,
in this document, and to remind others of it when wish to discuss a sensitive situation, or observe
appropriate. This includes all companies of the behavior that is not in line with our Code of Ethics,
Zalando Group. Be aware that failure to apply this please speak up. In some cases, the best approach
code can result in disciplinary action, and may even might be to directly approach the involved
result in a termination of employment, irrespective colleague(s). In others, you might speak to your
of grades or roles. Please note that leaders have a lead or ask a P&O business partner for advice.
special responsibility for shaping our culture and If you have experienced or witnessed direct or indirect
upholding our standards. We expect our leaders to be discrimination, (sexual) harassment or bullying, the
role models and take responsibility for their teams to Equality Team is there for you via a protected system
behave according to this code. And when concerns through equality@zalando.de (More information
are being raised, we expect leaders to listen carefully, regarding these cases can be found on zLife).
take every concern seriously, protect confidentiality,
and take action. For all compliance or ethical matters, you can turn to
the Compliance & Business Ethics Team personally,
via Compass, or via compliance@zalando.de. If you
wish to remain anonymous, you may also use the
Whistleblowing tool.
We prohibit retaliation against any colleague who
reports an incident in good faith or participates in
an investigation of a possible violation of the law
or our Code of Ethics. If you believe you have been
retaliated against, please reach out to your lead or to
the Compliance team. Every report is taken seriously,
investigated promptly, and action will be taken
where necessary.Contents
Together
we win
We are a team and we can only
win if we work together. Like any
successful team, we care about
each other, we always treat each
other with dignity and respect, and
we keep our shared goals in mind.Together we win Contents
We value our diversity and we are committed to a We offer equal opportunities. We listen and encourage participation.
healthy, supportive and inclusive work environment We constantly strive to make Zalando better, not To make the best decisions, we encourage constructive
where we all have the opportunity to reach our fullest bigger. We hire and promote based on merit and and inclusive debate. We actively listen and are willing
potential, feel valued, and be our authentic selves. We qualification only. We have zero tolerance for any to learn from each other, irrespective of position,
are all custodians of Zalando’s culture and reputation. types of discrimination on the basis of ethnicity, background, age or experience. We support direct
We have high expectations towards each other and gender, religion or conviction, disability, age, or dialogue between leaders and all employee groups.
our partners and we do hold each other accountable. sexual identity, or any other characteristics. We offer formats for feedback and participation for
Integrity and trust are the fundamental cornerstones all Zalandos.
of all our interactions. Upon these foundations we We respect and care about our colleagues.
build long-term, sustainable relationships with our We treat each other and our business partners We further increase trust with our partners.
colleagues and with our business partners and other with dignity and respect and we care about each We collaborate and build long-term relationships
third parties: other’s well-being. We are tolerant and honest with our partners and third parties, adhering to the
with each other. We will not accept any bullying, highest standards of integrity. We continue to earn
We value diversity and foster an inclusive offensive language, discrimination or harassment our partners’ trust through our focus on win-win-win
environment. and we will take appropriate actions to protect our outcomes (for customers, partners and Zalando).
We create a company as diverse as the customers we colleagues from all forms of harmful behavior. We We are humble, honest, and reliable, and we actively
serve. Leveraging this richness of perspectives makes have zero tolerance for cases of sexual harassment seek feedback and try to understand what drives
us better at delivering on our promises towards our or inappropriate behavior against individuals or our partners.
customers and partners and at supporting each other. groups. We expect everyone to be aware when
We actively seek out different perspectives, increase behavior is unwanted and unwelcome, and act
diversity in decision making, and create an inclusive accordingly. As Zalandos, we all take responsibility
workplace that allows everyone to feel safe being their for our own respectful and ethical behavior –
authentic self at work. internally and externally.Contents
We focus on
what matters
Each of us is part of Zalando’s
success story and contributes
to solving the most exciting
problems in the fashion industry
and to shaping our customer’s
experiences.We focus on what matters Contents
And we do so with expertise, passion, commitment, We strive to be a safe and inclusive workplace. Romantic relationships between colleagues can
speed and a healthy level of risk-taking, in close We will not accept any behavior that might endanger also lead to conflicts of interest, and can require
collaboration with colleagues and partners. The yourself or others, which impairs performance, re-arrangements, i.e. change of roles or teams within
principles below provide guidance to navigate in violates the law, or risks reputational damage for Zalando. Per default, a romantic relationship within
this agile environment: Zalando. We believe that being under the influence a reporting line will be presumed to be an inherent
of alcohol when working is incompatible with this conflict of interest. Any abuse of power resulting
We serve our customers. commitment. Therefore, drinking alcohol on Zalando from such a relationship will not be tolerated.
Everything starts with the customer, and our premises during office hours is prohibited. In all other
customers’ trust is crucial to Zalando’s success. work-related situations, we expect everyone to apply All of us should avoid conflicts of interest or situations
By acting responsibly, we protect our customers’ judgement when consuming alcohol by, for instance, that could be perceived as such, for example by
and stakeholders’ trust in Zalando and thereby the being mindful of colleagues who might still be working delegating a task or decision to another colleague.
foundations of our business success as well as and of the amount of alcohol consumed. We will not If the conflict cannot be avoided, we expect you to
Zalando’s reputation. We handle customer data with accept anyone being intoxicated on Zalando premises disclose the situation to your leader or another trusted
the utmost care. Everyone must ensure that all of or while conducting business activities. In addition, we person. If you accidentally entered such a situation, or
Zalando’s products are safe and comply with our have zero tolerance for any possession, consumption, if you are in doubt, your leader or your Compliance &
Quality Management standards. We flag potential or distribution of illegal drugs on Zalando premises, at Business Ethics colleagues can help. More information
issues immediately and escalate quickly to those Zalando events, or in any work-related context, such can be found in our Group Policy on Benefits, Gifts,
who need to know. as business trips. Events & Expenses.
We create a productive and healthy working We avoid conflicts of interest.
environment. When you are in a situation in which competing
At Zalando, we have high ambitions and strive every loyalties could cause you to pursue personal benefit
day to rise to the challenge and give our best. We for you, your friends, or your family at the expense
celebrate our collective success alongside each of Zalando, you may be faced with a conflict of
other’s professional and personal highlights. In interest. Examples of conflicts of interest are personal
these celebratory moments, we remain mindful and investments or business interests, conflicts arising
respectful of each other’s cultural backgrounds, from secondary employment, or personal relationships
personal beliefs, and individual choices. to vendors. Gifts, invitations or other courtesies
from business partners can also lead to a conflict
of interest, this is why we limit the value of business
gifts and only allow appropriate entertainment. More
information can be found in the Group Policy on
Benefits, Gifts, Events & Expenses.Contents
We act
like owners
Entrepreneurship is at the heart
of Zalando’s culture: we empower
our employees, enable them and
provide an environment in which
we can contribute to our joint
successes.We act like owners Contents
We expect all Zalandos to follow the We keep confidentiality.
principles below: We want to default to transparency and so we
communicate openly and share often. But we are
We speak up, we listen, and we act. extremely conscious of our responsibilities to all our
We encourage and expect you to speak up and stakeholders and work diligently to secure business
participate – share your ideas, suggestions, assets and information, especially data protected
concerns, and comments – and in turn to listen under the law and sensitive information under antitrust
to your colleagues. Constructive feedback and law. We only share company information if we are
truth-seeking debate is what we are striving certain we may. We always comply with the processes
for, as it makes us a better company now and on data and information security. We expect you to
in the future. ask for advice with the Privacy & Technology Law team
(it-law-intern@zalando.de) whenever you are in doubt.
We get the most out of what we have.
All of us should act in Zalando’s best interest and
carefully manage all of Zalando’s resources. This
applies to Zalando’s financial resources and to all
other assets, such as equipment provided by Zalando.
It also applies to intangible assets such as data,
our reputation, and our intellectual property rights.
Furthermore, in developing business relationships,
we strive for the best deal and to work with business
partners whose reliability, service and quality level,
ethical standards and sustainability efforts match
our level of ambition and care. We apply our
Investment Principles when deciding on how to
allocate resources. We take risks, but we are never
reckless. We understand our risks and manage
them intelligently.Contents
We follow
the law
We uphold the highest standard
of integrity, which also includes
complying with all applicable
legal requirements.We follow the law Contents
It is your responsibility to be informed, and while it Data protection. Insider compliance.
is not possible for anyone to know every applicable Each employee is responsible to ensure that As we are a listed company, Zalando is subject to
law by heart, we expect you to take advantage of Zalando’s high standards of data protection are capital market regulations. Information is available
our Compliance training to understand the red lines, respected without exception. The Data Privacy for all employees with a focus on those on the insider
and to reach out to your lead or the Legal function and Confidentiality Principles provide guidance for list to comply with all applicable rules through insider
directly in case of doubt. Violations of the law can lead all employees when handling data. We also train training sessions. Further information can be found in
to considerable fines, civil law claims, reputational employees and have policies such as Bring Your Own our Group Policy Insider Compliance.
damage, administrative or penal prosecution, or Device (BYOD) and Use of Electronic Communication
other severe disadvantages (e.g. loss of permits) Media and IT setting out best practice, guidance Taxes.
for Zalando or you personally. We do not tolerate and information for all employees, to ensure that we Zalando complies with all legal and regulatory
violations and will take appropriate actions. This is not maintain our standards. liabilities for taxation in every country in which
limited to the areas of law described below, but we we operate. We continuously improve our Tax
expect you to be especially diligent in these areas also Antitrust/Regulation. Compliance Management System to ensure that
to avoid unintentional breaches: As a company operating on various European market, the right culture, principles, processes, organization
Zalando is subject to national and European antitrust and communication are in place to fulfill all given
Anti-corruption. regulations, which are not always easy to maneuver obligations. We offer guidance and expect you to
We don’t accept any form of corrupt practices and provide for potentially substantial consequences comply with the tax requirements or to reach out to
including, but not limited to, extortion, fraud, or in case of violations. Therefore, compliance with the Tax Team in case of any doubts or questions.
bribery. We expect you to comply with the law and antitrust laws and related regulations is vital for
our internal policies to avoid even the appearance Zalando and breaches will not be tolerated. To this
of corrupt practices, e.g. gifts may not be accepted end, we offer trainings, workshops and guidance in
unless permitted by, and business courtesies to our “Do’s and Dont’s” with regard to antitrust, which
government officials are restricted under our must be respected. Only compliant firms will be fully
Group Policy on Benefits, Gifts, Events & Expenses. able to capture business opportunities in Europe, in
particular due to the dynamic development of antitrust
rules for platforms and tech/data companies.Conclusion Contents
As Zalandos, our individual actions and words
collectively shape our culture and our future.
We are all custodians of Zalando’s integrity and
success and are therefore accountable for our
individual behavior. Everyday each of us is faced
with new scenarios and new questions and it is
impossible to anticipate them all. That is why we
rely on principles to guide our actions – our Founding
Mindset and this Code of Ethics (in specific sensitive
areas, we have issued related policies for more
guidance). These principles help us apply the
right judgement to the situations we face now and
in the future.
If you find yourself in a situation where you are in
doubt about your own behavior, a simple test may
help you make the right decision: Ask yourself:
“How comfortable would I feel if I read about my
behavior in the press or explained it to somebody
else – for example, my partner or my colleagues at
the next All Hands meeting?”